This is Jockel podcast number 265 with Echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, Echo.
Good evening.
And also joining us tonight is Dave Burk, Good evening, Dave.
So last podcast, we introduced Marine Corps,
Doctional Publication at One Tack for, which is called,
Competing.
And of course, we only made it one chapter deep because,
well, there's a lot to go into.
And so we're going to continue on.
But first, we're going to take a little tangential trip
into my head a little bit.
So in reading that manual and as I talked about this,
I started correlating competing with influencing.
And you take that one step further, which isn't very,
a very big step.
What is influencing?
Influencing is leading.
That's what you're doing.
So one of the main things that I liked about this Marine
Corps concept of competing was this idea
of this continuum of competition that they present in this book.
That goes from pure peace on one side, just pure peace.
And then it starts to move to the right.
It goes to economic competition in then classic diplomacy
and then political warfare.
And then there's this gray zone and you get into hybrid war.
And then you get into the threat of violence.
And then you finally cross the,
what they call the violence threshold.
And then to, so you're now you're using violence.
And then even violence has a place that expands on this continuum.
It goes to from conventional war and then it keeps going further
and further to the right to you get to total war,
where one side is using any in all means.
And that's certainly completely destroyed there.
I mean.
And so with that, I started thinking about
the continuum of influence or the continuum of leadership
that we have to use every day to lead an influence people.
And it draws some very interesting parallels
to the continuum of competition at the Marine Corps
talks about and there's one specific mark in there
that really showed a lot of similarities to me.
So if we look at this continuum from the beginning,
like on the far side, you have someone that you don't care about.
You don't care what they're doing.
You're not trying to influence them.
You don't want them to do anything at all.
You just don't care.
They're off their like, off the spectrum.
I guess they're touching it, but they're not on it yet.
So we don't have to worry about them.
We don't care what they're doing at all.
Now, as soon as you cross that first little threshold
and now you've got someone that you want to influence.
You want them to follow a plan or you want them to execute an action
or you want them to execute a behavior.
So now we're on to the continuum of influence
or the continuum of leadership.
So what does it start with?
Well, it starts with we're trying to build a relationship
with that person.
That's where we're going to begin.
And what's interesting, what's the best way
to start building a relationship with someone?
You let them start to influence you.
So as soon as you're saying, hey, that's a good,
I like that, I like what you're doing.
And you're there's that.
You've heard of this thing mirroring.
Have you heard this?
So mirroring is the physical.
Oh, if Dave's hit the sitin with his hand
on his cheek, then I do the same thing.
And it's a little indicator.
I'm allowing you to see that you're kind of influencing
me and it's a positive thing.
So that's the base thing right there.
A physical, actual mimicry of what you're doing, mirroring
what you're doing.
And that's my first way of showing you that.
I'm allowing you a little influence.
So now that's starting to build a good rapport between us.
So that's like the lowest level.
And then what am I going to do?
I'm going to listen what you have to say.
And so I'm starting to build this relationship
and people don't think this way.
People miss this, right?
People don't understand that when I mirror you
and when I listen to you, I'm actually
starting to gain influence.
People totally miss that all the time.
They completely miss that.
But that's level one, right?
It's incredibly important level.
But it's level whatever point zero zero eight or whatever
that numbers.
So we're just listening.
We're letting them model where we're mirroring their behavior
a little bit.
Eventually as we start to escalate, we start to model
our behavior for them a little bit.
But we start acting a certain way.
We're not asking you to do it.
We're just doing it.
And we're hoping that that influence
rubs off on the other person and now they start to do the
same thing.
And this is another thing that you can do.
You do it subconsciously, maybe do it consciously.
But people are in a line at a grocery store.
And a new line opens up.
And if no one sees it, if you just,
if no one sees it, you can just walk over to that line
and then people see it and they kind of model your behavior
and you're kind of influenced
like a bunch of people that you don't even know.
But it's just a way of modeling behavior
and setting this over here all the time, right?
Set the example.
Set a good example.
That's a good way to lead.
For sure, that's outstanding.
Eventually though, maybe that's not enough, right?
Maybe we're trying to influence someone to do something,
either follow a plan, adjust their behavior, take a certain action.
If we're trying to get someone to do that,
and they haven't really followed our modeling,
now we got to start escalating and going a little bit harder.
So that's a little bit harder.
Well, asking good questions, asking earnest questions.
Oh, hey, hey, Dave, why do you do this like that?
And it's just a way.
And then listen so that as Dave explains to me
why he's doing something a certain way,
maybe it reveals to him, because now he's looking at it
from a detached perspective.
That's an amazing thing about asking someone a question.
When you ask someone a question,
it detaches them from what they're doing.
That's what makes it such a powerful tool.
Because when Dave is just sitting there with his pen
and he's fiddling with his pen,
he's not even noticing that he's doing it,
which he's literally doing right now.
But as soon as I say, hey, if I didn't want him to do that,
if it was blurring the camera or something,
hey, why are you, why you keep fiddling with that pen?
He has to detach to actually figure out why he's doing it.
Which is a great thing,
because we always want people to detach
and see things from the outside.
So just asking an earnest question is a really good
escalation on this continuum that we're going through.
Now, that little question and answer session that we're having
kind of leads to a discussion where we're actually
having a discussion, well, you know,
sometimes I just like to fidget.
It makes me think, oh, that's interesting.
So we can have a, we can have an actual conversation.
And that whole discussion that we're having,
if I'm utilizing this correctly,
I'm guiding you, I'm guiding Dave, in this case,
I'm guiding Dave to discover what I'm trying,
I want you to discover the fact that, hey,
if you're fidgeting with that pen,
people aren't even paying attention to what you're saying
and it's making noise on camera and it's like,
I want you to discover those things.
And I want you to actually tell me about them,
because then it comes from you,
and that's infinitely more powerful.
So, but sometimes it doesn't work.
And sometimes even though someone detaches,
they just don't, they can't get far enough away from that thing.
So where does it go from there?
Well, now I'm going to maybe offer an indirect,
little statement about what's going on.
You know, just a little, you know,
do you think it's distracting when you do that?
With someone's watching you?
I've always found that distracting,
if someone's talking to me, but they're fidgeting.
So now I'm just, I'm going to little, it's indirect,
but it still is, I'm starting to put a little bit more pressure
with that statement, and of course,
now what I'm going to do, and we'll listen what you have to say.
And so where does it escalate from there?
Now Dave's still not paying attention to what I'm saying.
He's still just sitting there fidgeting with the pen,
and it's distracting to everyone, it's making noise,
and it's messing up the focus, the camera's all kinds of problems.
But Dave doesn't care, or whatever, he hasn't seen it yet.
So then maybe we escalate a little bit more,
and now, you know, it's my metaphors about to lose a little bit of traction,
because that's such a minor thing that this next step,
well, to say, hey, why don't we make a pro,
like a pro and con list about fidgeting your pen, right?
Now if we were talking about, you know,
going into a new market area with a business,
and you were like, hey, we're going, we're going, we're going,
we're going in, I had tried to influence you,
and I tried to ask you questions about it,
and I couldn't get you there.
Then my next escalation might be,
hey, why don't we do a pros and cons on that?
I'm still not coming at you.
I'm just asking, asking, like, hey, why don't we do some pros and cons?
That way, once again, what am I doing?
You're going to have to detach you a pros and cons,
this is one of the benefits of doing a pros and cons list.
Is it detaches you, takes some of those emotions away,
and now we're sitting here saying, okay, Dave is detached to say,
well, these are some positive things, it helps me think,
it gives me something to do with my hands,
or let's go to the market area.
Hey, here's the positive things about the market area.
We don't have any stores there.
There seems to be a decent market, here's the cons,
it's going to, that's high rents in that area, whatever.
So now you can start to reveal, you reveal,
instead of me revealing you, hey, man, the rents over there are ridiculous.
Instead of me revealing that to you, which offends you?
In general, it offends people to just tell them anything.
It's much better when you tell me, now all of a sudden it's your idea,
and this is a beautiful thing.
So that's like sort of the next thing.
It's sort of another little level of escalation that you could do on this continual.
Where I'm moving in that direction, I'm still trying to indirectly influence you.
And maybe the next thing I do is offer some kind of a bargain,
some kind of a negotiation, where I say, hey, you know,
maybe now is not the right time to go in that market, or maybe we look at it next quarter.
Right, so it's a little negotiation to try and see if, if I can get you to think a little bit more about it.
It's just an negotiation.
And look, maybe you go, yeah, yeah, because maybe you saw just enough,
maybe you saw, maybe it just revealed just enough of the problems that you're going,
you know, maybe we do, you know, do this.
Maybe we may move away with the next quarter.
Yeah, we can do that.
And there's another little technique that's going on there too,
which is I'm giving you now, right?
Yeah, well, wait, next. Yeah, that's probably a good idea, right?
So you are sort of, you start to see some of those issues, but you don't want to
concede that your idea was not good.
So instead, you just concede that it will just push it off a little bit, but it's still a good idea.
So that way your ego remains intact and it's all good.
But maybe you didn't catch that.
So now we're going to start to brush up against,
we're starting to brush up against me being just direct with you,
which is revealing some shortfalls, like just saying to you, hey, you know,
the rents in that area are really high and by the way, two similar businesses went into that market
and both of them washed out and that happened in the last 18 months.
Those are real concerns.
And even when I do that, so now I'm showing you, like,
those are no longer things that you revealed.
Those are now things that I'm telling you.
So this is a transition and, and I'm sure you're tracking this, but this whole thing is
interlaced with leadership capital.
This whole thing is interlaced. So the other ones, when you, when I allow you to
reveal something to me, my leadership capital goes up, when I tell you something, my leadership
capital takes a little, takes a little bit of it, not, not thing crazy, but we're not neutral,
right, some of those in the middle might be neutral. So I'm still going to give you an out,
you know, when I say, hey, you know, there's other two other companies we're going to
have in the last 18 months and then so maybe we should and I give you some time and out,
you know, maybe we wait another year and I give you some kind of an out where you go, yeah,
you know, that's probably a good idea.
So we're still, we still have a possibility that you kind of see
what a good move is and you're kind of on board with what I'm saying, which is what I'm
trying to do this whole time is I'm trying to influence you, right, trying to lead you, trying to
influence you. Then it's just straight up, I'm just going to tell you what the shortfalls are.
And if that doesn't happen, you know, offer them another option, what's another option to
their plan, what's another option to their behavior? You know, hey, maybe putting stores directly in
that neighborhood, how about this one that's, you know, four miles to the north? So yeah, you know,
that's also a good neighbor. So I give you an out, I give you an option that still kind of
gratifies your ego and your idea, but at the same time it moves you in a little bit of a direction
where I want to go. So we're still doing all right. And then the kind of the final sort of indirect
way is, you know, a, a, Dave, why don't we put one in this market area over here now and then next time
we'll put one in this marketer that you want to go into. So again, a lot of these are just kind of
bargaining and kind of repetitive, but they're all different levels of bargaining from, hey, we do this
later to, hey, we will do this or we hold off. There's a bunch of different ways to bargain through it.
And then eventually, so now you go through these methods, these attempts to discuss something or
to influence someone and every one of these attempts is an indirect attempt. Every one of these
attempts is me trying to get you to kind of come on board with what I'm saying without,
well, buy your own, buy your own volition. Right. It's your choice that you say, yeah, you know what we
should do this later or yeah, you know what that, my art market area to the north is good. So all those
are your choice, every one of these I'm giving you to you, every one of these attempts, but we
might fail even with all those attempts. And then at some point, you know, so in the Marine Corps,
what they do is they go through this whole continuum and then they get eventually to this point
where they cross the threshold of violence. So what does that look like in influence? What does that
look like in leadership? It's the threshold of going from indirect to direct. And now I am absolutely
is going to cost me leadership capital. At this time, I'm now, it's not going to cost me leadership
capital, which hey, look, there's times we have leadership capital in the bank and if I've been
working with Dave for five years and we've done a bunch of stuff and it's all gone great and he's
risen up through the company and all of a sudden I got to call in some chips and say hey man,
you know what we're not doing that and he goes, God, you know, I'm not saying it doesn't cost me
something but I can afford it. But when you cross the threshold of from indirect to direct,
now it's definitely going to cost you like I said, you might have money in the bank, but you
might have leadership capital in the bank, but it's going to cost you. So now, now is when we're saying hey,
you know what, we're going to have to we cannot go into that marketer. Again, this is the most
gent toy to do it. It's we, you know, it's us, it's our team, I'm on your side, you know, we, we can't
go into that market area right now. And you know, then the response could still be, you know,
if Dave's, if Dave's my subordinate and Dave's start, you know, he most people get to say
we can't go into it. Most people get to hit and by the way, we'll get to this. The number of times
that I make it in across the threshold of direct is so, so, so menous, fuel, I can't remember times.
So most people by the same say, like, we cannot do that. We cannot go into that marketer. They go,
joc was got a pretty good, oh, yeah, and they, they feel a little bit of it. They feel that
direct and they immediately say, okay, I got it. I see where, I see where we're going with this. It's not
happening. Of course, sometimes does work, right? Sometimes you say, no, this, this is what we are doing.
We are not going in there. And it can even escalate to no Dave, you cannot open up another store
of that. Now, this is direct. This is it. I'm ordering you because I'm the boss. I'm ordering you,
we will not go into that market area. We are not going to build a store there. And then you,
we'll not do that. So this is a direct thing. It's not even me anymore. It's not even us. It's you.
And then what happens after that? What happens after that is now you, now you have to have a
stick, right? Outcomes us because we, we were, we had to care it out for a while.
And some of those bargaining can be carats. Hey, Dave, you know, if you can hold off on that
merit marketer, I'll give you this other marketer over here. That's a carrot. I use that carrot.
I didn't mention it, but yeah, that's another indirect way. If I can draw you away from this
bad area to this other area with a carrot, that's positive. We just got a bunch of intel that this
other market areas really start and ramp up. Why don't you put something there? All of a sudden,
you go, oh, yeah, okay, I didn't know that cool. You jump on that carrot. Well, now, when you don't,
when you go through this escalation, now I add some point I have to get out of stick.
And say, if you try and open up something in that market area, I'm actually going to remove you
from that position, or I'm going to dock your pay or whatever the punishment becomes. I'll write
you up, whatever it's going to become. And that's sort of where we get to, you know, theoretically
in the business world of the highest level of escalation is like, I'm going to fire you, right?
If you don't do what I'm telling you to do, you are going to get fired. I'm going to fire you.
And of course, you go outside the business world, you go into the streets as they say. Well,
there's the threat of violence comes next, which is, hey, you either get, you either move your
car out of my parking space, or I'm going to punch you in the head. That's a threat of violence.
And what happens after that? Violence. I grab you. I put you back in your car, and I, you know,
don't say you better back out of this thing right now. And, and if you really want to take this
to the next level, the ultimate is the, the existential threat, which is if you don't do what I'm
telling you to do, I'm going to kill you. Right? So, so, and it's important to, it's important to
understand what that that's there. And I'll tell you why, because a lot of people, they want to
start. They want to start this, this continuum at the threat. That's where they begin. That's where
they begin with their employees. They start with, this is what you're going to do. That's where they
start. And once, once you, once you cross, here's the thing. So, once you cross that threshold
of director overt, that's another good word, overt leadership. Meaning, I'm telling you exactly,
this is totally overt. There's no, there's no influence happening there. It's just me telling
you what's going to happen. And when we do that, when we, when you start out there, you just don't
have anywhere to go. You don't have anywhere else to go. So, the lower you are on the continuum,
the better off you are as a leader. And in fact, in fact, if you go negative, if I go,
if I'm your boss, Dave, and I go negative, and I actually let you influence me. And I say,
you know what, Dave, that looks like a great marketer. I had any think of going in there. Let's do it.
I'm gaining more, even more leadership capital. So, it's even better if I'm in the negative,
if I'm in that other chart where you're actually influencing me. So, if we can do that,
then we don't ever have to get to that threshold. And I, like I said, I, the amount of times
I've crossed that threshold in my life from a leadership perspective is freaking tiny. And I'll
tell you where let's just start one place that happens all the time. It happens with kids all the time.
Right? Of kids all the time, it's, it's, it's clean your room. Why? Because I said so, there you go.
Yep, you just went right to the, hey, direct over, I'm going to order you what to do,
horrible thing to do. What happens with employees? Happens up and down the chain to command.
And here's what's interesting. When you are, when you cross the threshold of,
of direct and you cross the threshold of overt, you, there's a, there's a equal and opposite reaction.
Right? So, every time you bark at someone, they, they might do what you said, but there is
an equal and opposite reaction that they are looking for you to fail. They're looking to sabotage
or looking to cause problems. The stronger the order is the more you yell at somebody, the stronger
that backlash is going to be. That's the reality of the situation. And a lot of people, a lot of
people need to think about this. So, in the same way that the Marine Corps put together this manual
to let everybody know that there's, that they're competing all the time. You should also know that
there's a continuum that, you're on a continuum of competition all the time. And there's also a
continuum of leadership. And by the way, it's up and down the chain of command too. And I'm not
going to like dig deep into this right now. We'll do it later. But when you talk about up the chain of
command, there's a continuum as well. It starts off with just compliance. Dave tells me to do something
he's my boss. Cool. I do it. What's the next level? I question what he's saying. Hey, Dave, why are we doing
that? What's the next level? Hey, Dave, I don't think we should do that. We get some resistance going.
Then we get to objection. This is a bad idea. And then we eventually get to refusal. And then we get to
mute and so there's a continuum there as well. And there's some people that start off, you know,
if they don't have a, if they're not thinking strategically, they go right to this, this is still making
sense. That's where they go right to. They're jumping right there. And now all of a sudden, what are
they going to get back? An equal and opposite reaction, which says, shut up and do what I told you to do.
So we don't want to go to war. We want to build relationships. We want to build relationships with
other country. We're other nation states. We want to have a relation. We don't want to go to war.
War costs us money and lives. We don't want that. We don't want to go to war with our employees.
We don't want to go to war with our teammates. If you recognize this continuum, you can start to say,
oh, I see what's going on. I'm escalating. How much am I going to escalate? What's the next
lowest minimum step I could take in my escalation? So that's what we need to do. We need to pay attention
of that. I don't have to do this. I can barely think of times when I've had to do this.
And why is because I listen up one other people have to say, I dig in. I mean, I don't dig into
my position. I don't think my position is infinitely better than yours. I think probably if you
and I both want to kill bad guys and win the war, our ideas are going to be pretty close. I think
if we both want to take care of our clients and make profit, our ideas are going to be pretty close.
They're going to be pretty close. Close enough that I can be fairly agreeable with whatever it is
someone else wants to do. But it's a continuum that we have to pay attention to just like
competing. What do you got Dave? You're over there taking notes. I was just thinking,
I mean, I'm listening to what you're saying and I'm making the connection and you're using
examples that I actually get to live. I lived in the military, but I get to live that now too,
because I've released the clients we work with. I've released ships inside of the Shlon
front. I've released ships at different ways, even with you and there are times that you and
are working together. There are times that you're helping me, almost in a support role with
the client and there's times that you're the CEO of the company. I'm running one of the departments.
As you're talking about that, I'm picturing this continuum. Where's the threat of violence?
Where does physical violence or where does war come in? The more you make deposits or the more
you take the indirect approach, the more you get to keep doing that and the more you go to the
direct threat, the more you have to use that. And just the idea of the recognition is that
and I'm just thinking of those terms of the more indirect you are. The more leadership deposits I make,
the more that's the technique I get to use, because the more I let you influence me, the more
likely you're going to be doing the things you want to do that help us get to the end state. And I never
have to, I never have to move down that, that almost never have to move down that continuum. I'm
trying to think of a time where I'm trying to think of a time where you had to escalate in a way that
I recognized. And I've been working for years. Now, I'm not saying that that hasn't happened.
I'm not saying that the escalation hasn't occurred, but it's, I can't think of a time where I went,
oh, damn, I kind of, I kind of pushed him up the stair step. So it has been subtle enough. The
times, however many times has happened, but the reason it works, even those subtle escalations,
the reason they work is because that's the technique you always use. So the idea of the threat of
violence, especially if that's your first move, it's so limiting. It gives you so few options after
that, that it's such a bad, it's not a bad first move. It's even a bad six or seventh one. I think
there's this idea that there are so many things. And I think the part that has leaders that I want to
avoid war as well, even if I'm the boss, even if I'm in charge, it's not what I want. And I think
the way you close it was, is this because the equal and opposite reaction. And this satisfaction of
knowing you're going to win is not should not be enough to make, and as a parent makes the most sense.
I know I'm going to win that worth my get. If I tell my kid to clean his room, because I said so,
he is going to clean his room. What a great victory. What a win. Yeah. And, and yeah,
for how long until the reaction from him becomes so big and so violent that I lose all influence
over him. Yeah, the other thing is, as I brush up against, hey, well, maybe it's the time.
Maybe it's the time to go direct in this situation. Most of the time, after way that against,
okay, well, what does that get me strategically? Right? Where does that get me strategically? If I've
got to say, you know what Dave, you need to do it this way from now on. I want you to use this
font on the power points, right? Whatever thing you want to come up with. Where does that get me strategically?
All you have to do is take one step back and say, wait a second, where does that get me strategically?
Does that improve my relationship with Dave? Does this make him want to do a better job? Does this,
like you just have to take one step back and you, oh, yeah, this is dumb. This is a dumb move.
What I should do is be a better influencer, have a better relationship, explain myself better,
do some bargaining, talk about it, maybe I'm wrong, maybe the font that he's using is actually
better for these and and by the way, has he picked a font that's eligible? Right? Has he picked a
font that's eligible? Is it, is it, Cyrillic? Is that the right word? I don't know. Cyrillic, is that
the right word? Like the Russian? Yeah, is he picked a font that is illegible in English? Right?
And then then I kind of have to make a stand, but if it's legible, if people can read it,
why am I freaking out? The answer is I'm stupid. I want to waste my leadership capital
on something that doesn't matter. But by the way, up and down the chain of command, because if I
said, hey, Dave, what do you think of that font? You know what you'd say to me? You're like,
well, I've been using it, but what does it not look good? And I'd say, well, I don't know,
it's a little bit unclear from a distance. You'd say, oh, I'm going to fall on my sword about
this font. No, you'd actually say, oh, which one have you been using? And I'd say, oh, I've been using
aerial because it has sharp edges, which I like. And you'd say, hmm, oh, click down, drop, drop the
menu, there's aerial, you click on it. Yeah, you're right. That does look pretty good, Joco.
And I go, gee, thank you. And you say, you know what, I'm going to change all my briefs to aerial.
Because just vice versa, I'm not sitting here telling you, use Cyrillic fonts that can't be read,
by English speaking humans. So you're, so what do we do? I'm offering a little suggestion,
and you're going, oh, yeah, that's a great suggestion. My leadership capital went up,
your leadership capital went up. It's a beautiful thing. Or we can have World War VII about a font.
It's such a tactical loss for you to say, it's, first of all, to tackle a loss from you to say,
you need to change this font. This, you need to use aerial because that's what I use.
Yeah, okay. Great. Oh, hey, by the way, it's different. That font's different on other systems.
And now all of it looks like just a horrible thing. If you're smart, you go, hey, oh, you like
air, cool. Got it. We're moving forward. Be surprised. Be surprised. All right,
it's interesting, isn't it? It's interesting, how you kind of use the pan fidgeting example
on Dave over here, but you literally did me like that. Did I really? Yeah, we have it. Remember,
I was clicking the pan. Yeah, there's on online. Oh, you need to post it there. And you,
I did post it. I know what I said. I said, do you think the Mike picks up that noise? Yeah,
do you think the Mike's? And you know what you said? You said no. I don't think so. But you didn't
begin. No. But then you kind of clicked it a couple times while we were just quiet. And you know what you heard?
Click, click, click, click, click, click, click, and then I laughed. Yeah. And I did, it was weird.
It kind of was, it was almost like in not slow motion, but kind of like I could slowly,
within the span of our would say maybe six seconds, I slowly picked up on what you're doing there.
Like why you said it like that? Like you're saying, hey, stop doing the clicking. Just stop clicking.
You, that's what you're saying. And but you said it in this way. Hey, do you think that that's
going to have end the way the tone, everything like you could tell you knew what you're doing with
the way you delivered that question. Here's the, here's the no kidding. The, the no kidding. When I
asked you that question, I was earnestly asking that question. Like, do you think that's going to show
up? Now, it's an earnest question. Do you think that clicking is going to show up on this podcast?
It's an earnest question. I probably had a pretty good suspicion because I can freaking hear it through
my headphones for 15 minutes. But you got to detach from those emotions. And you got to ask
an earnest question because maybe if it's not going to show up, why am I worried about it?
I'm not going to let it, I'm not going to let it bother me. If it's not going to show up,
it's not going to be on the audio, then who cares? I'm not going to care about that. If you want to
click your panel all day, cool. It's not bothering me. It's not going to be on the, we're good.
So it's an earnest question. But I mean, it's, it's, we did know the answer. Yeah. Kind of,
because we can hear it. You know, it's kind of interesting. We'll say, because you know, I did
kind of say, no, I don't think so. I forget exactly what I said. We'll get the replay. Yeah. But I
feel like if I remember correctly, I was kind of, at least at the very least, implied that, like,
no, no, no, it's all good. Almost. For just for a split second, though, your thing is that was a
version of me, like defensively. I was about to say that was that was an instinctual defense.
It's instinctual. Exactly. Like that instinctual defense. Yeah. Yeah. And then, but I was so,
it was so not, like, just natural. Yeah. But it was so not called for, like, on a, like, a primal
level. If you were, like, it was so not called for that. I felt that it was so not called for,
and I don't, I don't have to dig in on this. Clicking the pan. Let's face it. Like, I know that it's,
like, a habit. You know, I mean, clicking bends to have it. And then what made it additionally
interesting, just a little teeny tiny interaction was that, I was like, oh, man, I do it, like,
I got a habit, right? There's the excuses, like, trying to explain, like, I do how to have it.
And then, instead of you saying, mirror those two excuses or whatever, you were just like,
oh, and then you grabbed, like, the nearest non-clicking pan and just simply gave me some
bargaining. Red option. That's, that's the carrot, right? The carrot, like, oh, maybe
do you get your attention from that? Yeah, there you go. Perfect. You know, the, the things that fall into
the category of indirect and direct, like the techniques you can use can actually, I was thinking
about that conversation can actually change. If early in a relationship or relationship that doesn't
have a lot of mutual respect or you don't have any of that leadership capital built,
you can say, hey, Dave, don't, don't click your pan. And I'd be like, okay, I probably comply,
but am I mine? I like, dude, what's the deal? And I, I might have that natural, that little reaction,
that little ego hit, and then that little resistance, or even maybe little resentment,
whatever it is. And this is a small example, but it would fit in the category of direct.
I don't naturally like that. But over time, if you've actually done the things you're just talking
about, and you've built enough capital, what falls as indirect or influence, that actually can
expand. You can say to me, right now, hey, don't click that pan. And I'm going to have no
reaction to it. Because I'm going to think, oh, he's only telling me that for my own benefit,
for the benefit of the body. I'm not going to have that reaction, so that what appears to be a
direct that you're saying something directly to me, I don't even register that as a direct,
and that actually fits in the category of, at a minimum, there's no withdrawal there. So even
the things that you do as little as they are, the options for indirect leadership actually
can grow. Things that would normally be outside there, where I would have some sort of problem
with you saying that, where I think, a mustard three, and you go, hey, when you're doing Q&A,
you say, I think you said something like, you say, in between, don't do that anymore.
And the way you said it didn't bother me at all. But it could be that if you have that conversation
with somebody, and you don't have any leadership capital, they might not like that. So you
being able to say that to me is a function of the trust that we have, the influence that we shared,
and the amount of leadership capital, you have that you can actually kind of be direct,
and it doesn't bother me that it would, in a way that it would, had just come at, you know,
day one, we're like, I don't like the way you talk, do it differently. And I'm not going to like that,
no matter who I am. So even what you can do, what you can get away with in a sense of what is still
a leadership capital deposit, that will grow as well. Yeah, that's, that's why it's all
interlaced with leadership capital. Because if you start off day one by saying, I don't like the
way you talk, that's, you use went into a deficit immediately. And now you got to dig your way out of that.
That's why it's totally interlaced with leadership capital. Because the more leadership capital you have,
the more when you need to now, if I said, hey, Dave, you're saying, oh, when you talk and hey,
Dave, this answer was bad and hey, Dave, the way you presented this, your slides were all,
they didn't look good and hate. And I just started everything was negative. Well, I'm going to
eventually going to run out of leadership capital and start going in a bad way. And you're, you're out of
two, just, all chocolate does is just tell me what I do wrong. And I guess I can't do anything right.
And I guess I just don't even need to be here. And I think you go look for another job. It's just,
you know, because I've, I've expended all my leadership capital. So it's completely intertwined with
leadership capital, completely intertwined with leadership capital. But just like, you know, I said this on
EF online the other day, I people usually think they have more leadership capital than they do.
They usually think they're just rolling deep in in in leadership capital in their own little heads.
They think, of course. So I always kind of treat every situation as if, okay, you know, I'm,
I'm lean. I'm running lean. It's going to be lean Christmas. That's my parents used to tell me.
It's going to be lean Christmas. So I always think, I don't have leadership capital to spare because
also what if I really need leadership capital tomorrow? What if tomorrow? I go, hey, Dave,
I know it's your, your anniversary, your tenure anniversary, your 20 year anniversary, whatever. And I know
that you're supposed to go to the mountains with your life for three days. And we just had a
client call and you now have to go to Oklahoma to talk to them. And I might have to do that.
Tomorrow. And that's the way it is. So am I really, how much, how, where do I want that account?
Right. I want that account to be as built up as I possibly can. So that means I'm not going to waste
leadership capital on little things that don't matter. Not going to happen. Yeah. That's why the default
no matter where you are should almost always be almost always be on that side of the default should be on
that side of this spectrum. Yeah. And it's weird too because you have the, you have the threshold of violence,
we have the, on the continuum, on the war continuum, on the competing continuum, there's a
threshold of violence. There's actual real violence with with influencing people. Like you have to
admit that that you can push people around and you can smack them and you can beat them up. That's
a, there's a, there's a threshold of violence on the, on the influence on the influence continuum.
Before that, there's, there's a one between direct and indirect. So you cross that one, which is
a huge one. That's like the big one. Yeah. Now, of course, I guess the threshold of violence is a
big one too on influence because now you're getting charged with a salt or murder or murder, depending on
what level of violence you took a deal of. So it's important to think about these things.
And with that, we're going to jump into this, this, this whole thing, man. I mean, I just like,
I've just been thinking about this nonstop, which is pretty normal for me to think about these
things, nonstop. So competing for US Marine Corps brand new manual one tack for it's called
competing last last time we covered chapter one this time we're covering chapter two. This one's
chapter two is called the theory of competition. And it says competition as an active policy
as states engage in competition or try to shape the competitions on going among the range of
state and nonstate actors involved in areas of interest to states they develop policies frame
to frame order and apply resources to this activity. Marines need to understand policy,
how it's developed and how it relates to ongoing competition. My little note here just says,
what are you doing? This is me making notes to myself, what are you doing? What are you doing? Where are
you at? Do you know what your what competition are you in? You know, I had a it was an early
part, it was a pretty early podcast, I don't know which one, but when I started talking about
what game are you playing and and you can be playing the wrong game with your life and if you're
looking up and you're like, man, I'm doing everything I can but I just I'm not putting any points on the
board. Well, if you're playing soccer, you might not be putting any points on the board because there's
only one goal a game or three, maybe you should be playing basketball, we can score 48 points again.
So with this competition, what are you competing in? And who are you competing against?
Goes on, Marines are frequently asked to provide input to policymakers as they deliberate.
Understanding the larger context around policy decisions helps Marines determine the broader
intent behind specific decisions which in turn helps us make sound supporting plants. What does
that mean? Everyone should know why they're doing what they're doing. Like war, Marines should
think of competition as serving policy. Since we acknowledge competition as an enduring condition,
that's a great, that's a great phrase, one would adopt that one, enduring condition. It's just
ongoing. It's forever. In internal relations, then we need to take equally and equally long
view when it comes to policy as well. US vital interests have remained relatively stable over time.
For example, since World War II, they've been framed in various ways while consistently calling
for the maintenance of our constitutional values, protection of the American homeland and people,
promotion of American prosperity and the advancement of the American influence in the world.
The contemporary environment will affect these specifics of policy, but the enduring
foundation for it consists of stable interests such as these. So what, what the reason I
and again, sometimes I look like, oh, we can kind of breathe over this part. No, I know you can't.
Because if you, if you think about your life, okay, you can think about your business for sure.
What is it that your business is trying to do? Like do you think a Marine wakes up in the morning and says,
okay, today I'm going to maintain our, the maintain our constitutional values.
Is he saying, all right, I've got to protect the American homeland. People, we kind of, we kind of
know that one promotion of American prosperity. So there's these, there's these things. They're
so big, such big strategic goals that they shape every decision that you make. They should
the advancement of American influence around the world. If a Marine goes out and does something
stupid in name a foreign country goes out and acts like gun to get strong and act like an idiot,
has he helped the advancement of American influence in the world? No, he hasn't.
And that's what he's going to hear from his commanding officer. You just made all Marines
to look bad and you just made America look bad by getting drunk and getting a fighter,
whatever you did that will stupid. And that Marine can't deny that. He says, Roger Sir,
it was a bad move. If that Marine would have been thinking a little bit more strategic,
maybe he would have maintained a little bit more level ahead on the bears. You know, I had a Marine
one time. I was on a ship. I was on a ship and look, we know we know that I love the Marine
corps. I was on a ship. And when you'd pull and to port, you have to get in line to get off the
ship. And sometimes it take an hour or two hours. So what we would do is we'd work out,
as soon as we got, as soon as we hit the pier, we would work out. This is like 1990, whatever.
We'd hit the pier, work out. And by the time we got done working out, took a shower,
then you could just walk right off the ship because all the Marines were already gone. So once
time I did that, like me and my buddies, we got, we hit the pier, we start working out,
we get done working out, take a shower. It's been an hour and a half. We come walking up to leave.
So these guys have been off the ship without that. They are carrying a young Marine back on the ship,
just completely brain dead from alcohol. So, you gotta be careful out there.
But so, so when you look at, if you look at the Marine corps has these kind of broad things that
they're saying, this is what we're doing. What do you have in your life? What do you have in your business?
What do you have in your business? Okay, just like that young Marine, if he's lead well,
he's going to say, you know what? The home Marine Corps is relying on me to make America look
good. God, that's sort of good Marine is going to say. If you're running a business and you've got
a cashier, I've been using cashiers a lot because you know why? Because they're front line and
they're interacting with people. If you've got a cashier that treats a customer bad, he's making
the whole company look bad. If you doesn't know that, okay, and then what about your life?
What are you trying to do in your life? What are you trying to, where are you trying to go with your
life? What's the broad, what's the broad strategic mark that you're trying to make? Do you have one?
Do you have one? And if you don't have one, how are you making decisions? You're making decisions
for with no, with no steering whatsoever, without a compass. So these are enduring interests.
And during interest provide Marines a potential source of competitive advantage.
At hearing to our values, when done as part of a comprehensive strategy,
you can serve to attract others and work in harmony with Marines with what Marines learned from
an early age. Value such as freedom of expression and press freedom can help frustrate the plans
of some competitors. Positive some interests such as increasing American prosperity also help
attract allies and partners. This is especially true when we can show how our interests align
with theirs. And that interesting. If we can work together, we're going to be better off. We're
stronger together. We're stronger together than we are fighting each other.
Domestic politics affects the policy decisions of almost all competitors and the resulting
character of all nearly all competitions. Everything you do, everything you do impacts,
the competitors and the competition itself. As mentioned in chapter one,
there are often multiple centers of power in each nation and the struggle amongst them often
creates ambiguity in the minds of outside observers. These struggles affect internal politics and
often drive or limit current policy choices. This is true in the United States. For example,
when we see the deliberations on national policy among three co-equal branches of the government,
in other less open societies, domestic considerations have major impact on policy,
even though these considerations are often harder for outsiders to understand.
This happens in businesses a lot. You've got some people with different ideas of how we're
going to get where we're going, sometimes unfortunately, even disagree on where they're going,
which is bad. And that's something with all the political mayhem that we're facing in America right now.
I guess maybe mayhem's well, with what we're facing right now, we'll just call it. We want
put a, we don't want to sign a word to it because different people will sign at different words.
We'll say that there's disagreements in America right? But this is what, this is a democracy
is going to be messy, but you're going to get a better result in the end. So if you, if you
have a platoon where, hey, I'm going to take input from the troops, so they're going to let me know
and sometimes they're going to argue with me about some stuff and not argue, but we're going to
disagree about some things. Now, if it turns into an argument, we start fighting, that's bad.
But for, for my point, man, to say, hey, Joc, I don't think that's a good route to get into the
target. And me to say, well, why not? And for us to have a discussion about that's totally
positive thing. I want to come to a better conclusion. That's what's supposed to happen in democracy.
We have a discussion, but we're both trying to get to the target. My point, man, once to get there,
I want to get there. In America, we've got, what are we trying to do? We've got a hope that we are
aligned enough that we say, oh, we want our economy to get better. Okay, can anyone, is anyone disagree
with that? All right, maybe we disagree on how we get there, but at least we have this one thing
that we know we're moving towards. And you can say that, about what do we want? There to be
poverty in the country. Does anyone that says, yeah, well, I really think we need in America's
more poverty? No, no one's saying that. There's not one person that's saying we need more poverty
in America. So no matter who you are, you're saying, yep, you know what, we don't want poverty.
We want less poverty. Great. Now, you might think we get there one way. Someone else thinks you
get there. Another way. Okay, let's figure out what those things are. And then we can discuss
how we get there. But it's okay if we disagree, because we're just trying to find the best solution.
And when Dave's solution is different to me than me than how we get to the target, and he's the
point, man. And I say, shut up, we're going my way. And he goes, no, we're not that stupid. And now,
we're in a fist fight. Our platoon is falling apart. So what we do is we listen to each other.
And we look for the best possible solution. And maybe, you know, as you, I always try and just agree
with the other person. What does that mean? Does that mean I just always bow down and say, oh,
you know what, Dave, you know, I can't make a new decision. So we're going with the Dave says, no,
because Dave wants to go one way that I think is going to take an extra 15 minutes.
The route that Dave chooses as the point man is going to take an extra 15 minutes. So you know what,
we're not doing it that way. We have a seven hour patrol. My way is going to take seven hours.
Dave's way is going to take seven hours and 15 minutes. We're doing my way. No, actually, Dave,
you know what, your way sounds great. Why? Because I already said, I just, I just in that moment,
I saved 30 minutes of you and I arguing about it. And now we can focus on something more important.
And by the way, we're still getting to the target. And by the way, there's so many unknowns on that route
that I don't know and you don't know. And no one can know. And so I'm actually arguing about something
that I have no idea where the landmines, where is the, what is the actual terrain like, what,
how tall is that little cliff that I see? Is that something we can get up or do you need to
bring ropes? And also, it takes 45 minutes just to get up that little thing. We got to carry extra gear.
I don't know any of that. So guess what? Am I going to argue with you for 15 minutes of
difference? No. Sounds good, Dave. So why don't I have to, why can I let Dave do whatever,
why can I almost always say I'm going to go with someone else's plan? Because I work with Dave
for long enough. And by the way, I actually taught Dave land navigation. So when Dave comes to me,
and he says, hey, here's how I think we should go. There's a 98% chance that it's pretty freaking
close to what I would do in the first place. And by the way, either way, we still get to the target,
which is where we're going. Back to the book. For United States Marines,
understanding current policy relies in part on understanding the interplay between domestic
politics and our enduring vital national interests. Shouldn't everyone just kind of have
enduring vital interests for their family, for their business, for their life? Shouldn't we all
have those things? Yes, we should. As a nation, yes, we should. As specs of domestic politics,
like the election cycle and contemporary societal issues affect current policy, these aspects are typically
felt by Marines through such things, resourcing decisions, guidance on the composition of the
force and specific direction to focus, particular national interests or particular competitors.
You should know the story about what's going on. That whole thing right there, hey,
Corporal Smith that just heard me read that that said, hey, bro, I'm not I'm not I'm not tracking.
What this means is you need to know it's just just understand what's happening in the world.
And understanding that what's happening in the world is going to sort of guide what the Marine
Corps is doing. International competition, particularly among nations, plays out over a long timeline.
Oh, what timeline is that? Life. Pursuing the goals put forth by the Constitution and its
amendments has been an enduring vital interest to the United States since the day became effective in
1789. This contrast with our desire to bring war to a conclusion as quickly as possible.
Marines need to understand this distinction. Competitive advantage.
Advantage is relative to a competitor when one actor is able to do something better than its
rival or rivals. Check, we get that. What's a corporal terminal lance? That's sort of,
that's, we should be using terminal lance. That guy's legit. Terminal lance is a
he's a cartoon. And he's always actually a whole book too. Terminal lance props.
A business enjoys, it's interesting. Here we go back to a business. A business enjoys competitive
advantage when it can sell a product at a lower price than other businesses, assuming other factors
like quality stay the same. Nations also have relative competitive advantages, also referred to
as comparative advantages. Historically, the innovative culture in the United States helped
bring it new goods and services to the international marketplace faster than others. The cost
of labor in some countries is lower than others, which makes them more attractive for labor intensive
manufacturing businesses. It follows then that we must understand our potential rivals if we are
to develop and maintain a competitive advantage against them. G. We must understand our potential
rivals, Sunsu, Art of War, know who you're fighting. The United States has many competitive
advantage. Oh, by the way, obviously this is something that we're doing all the time at
origin. Right? Well, there's we're competing against nations that make the same
basic product that we make, but they're doing it with slave labor or they're doing it with
someone that's getting paid in horrible working conditions. And so we've had to find ways and we
continue to find ways that we can compete with them. And not only are we competitive, we're better
because our product ends up better. And because we're here now now you get into shipping and what
is it costs to ship things from overseas? What does that do to the whole picture? So we're
we're figuring out and we have figured out how we have a competitive advantage, even though we
take care of our workers, which we actually also feel is a competitive advantage. Taking care
of your people is a competitive advantage. Because now your people care about the product that they're
making. They want to do a good job. Not not slaving in a in a sweatshop. Instead of looking
instead of looking at slave labor as an advantage, I look at as a disadvantage. We've got the
advantage because we have a better workforce who care about the company. The United States has many
competitive advantages in international competition. The world's largest economy and an international
financial system that uses the dollar to make transactions are strong economic advantages. Yes,
the enduring US interests in freedom of navigation on the seas attracts many partners because
free navigation reduces the overall cost of trading between nations. The US higher education system
attracts students from all over the world. The list goes on and on. But these illustrations show
that we should look for a nation's competitive advantages among its enduring qualities, such as
values, interest and culture. And this is what you need to do. So how does this tie into everybody?
What about your business? How do you have the culture and do you have the values inside your
business that are actually competitive advantages? Do you have that? If you don't have that,
if you don't have values, if you don't have a culture, that's a competitive advantage. You're wrong.
The competitive advantages in the military component of dime are naturally of great interests
to Marines. Since World War II, the United States made the use of several military advantages
such as the joint forces of ability to project and sustain power globally. It's skillet operating
across domains and its expertise in precision targeting and strike. The US military's
principal professionalism can also present distinctive advantages. For example, when it's
properly contrasted with competitors seeking to extend a fairitarian government without regard
for rule of law or protection of civilians. So that's a huge advantage that we have is that we have
military professionals. And that's what they do. And it's also advantage as far as on concern that
we have reserveists that come and serve in Iraq, come and serve in an Afghanist and that go
for the weekend and see how the military is doing and take their civilian expertise into the
into the reserve unit or the national guard unit for the weekend. We have both those.
And there's advantages to both of those.
Talking about that, I think it was the Guadalcanal reason podcast.
We're talking about how some of the reserveists, where the people that said, hey, that's a
dumb idea. We don't want to do that. Because they hadn't been indoctrinated as fully as
somebody that had been an infantry officer for 18 years and he's looking at the problem going,
hey, I know how to solve this problem in the book. I know what to do. And some reserveists are like,
hey, bro, I hunt and ten a sea. And that doesn't make any sense. So we use this as a competitive advantage.
I'm just thinking this whole time about the connection between these military examples.
And I'm going through my head things that I remember as a Marine. And how closely
connected they are to just everybody's life in both business and in life just the connections to
your family has you have long-range plans for your family. You have these strategic, long-range plans
for your family. It's a really no different than I think they called the the enduring values of the
country that you need to keep in mind that might actually change or influence the smaller things that you do.
Yeah, and that's something I've been hitting on a lot. The fact that culture is the ultimate form
of decentralized command. Culture is the ultimate form of decentralized command. Where now we have a
a cashier that knows how to treat a client, a knows how to treat a customer because understands
the culture of the company. Now we have a Marine that can be out in town can see a situation unfolding
and knows what decision to make it just based on the culture of the Marine Corps, of the seal teams,
of the army, of the 80 second airborne of the 101st airborne of the base. If you have that culture
correct, that soldier, that Marine, that cashier, that frontline salesperson, they know what
decision to make just based on the culture that you have inside the organization totally.
And that's a two-way street too because if I'm running a grocery store and I've got a cashier,
I'm not going to spend all day every day just talking to that cashier about long-range strategic
things for the company. I actually need that person up there, ringing up customers,
as they're coming through. But if I, if I, as the CEO of that grocery chain or the CEO of that
company, don't think that that cashier can't make a strategic, a tattoo just in this massive
strategic implications. And I lose side of the fact that they actually do, at certain intervals,
need to understand how what they do affects the big picture. Then I'm actually sent myself up
for failure. Any Marine has ever been to Okuenawa, knows that when the Marine goes out and town
steals a car and runs into a fire hydrant, that Marine doesn't just get in trouble for sealant
a car. That is an inter-national incident that undermines the relationship between two countries.
And it happens all the time. And if you don't think you're young folks that are doing this
very tactical things, don't have to have some connection to the big picture enough to guide
their day-to-day decisions. You are setting yourself up for long-term failure. And that works
both ways. That cashier has to know, hey, I've got to treat this customer with some respect
because if I don't, it's going to go on yellow, it's going to go on YouTube, it's going to go
on Instagram or whatever that might be. And I could take down the whole company if I'm not careful.
You know, I want to create paranoia, but they have to understand those small appearing to be small
tattoo things can actually influence the entire organization. And they have to be able to make that
connection. If you are in a situation like that and you're employing front line troops to carry out
these sort of tactical day-to-day things, it's pretty easy to end up in the job market.
The people that you're hiring, the human capital that you have available to you, it's pretty
easy for them to be, hey, I actually, Dave C. E. O. Dave Burke, I actually don't really care about the
company that much. And if you fire me tomorrow, I'll go get another minimum job, minimum wage
jobs somewhere else and I don't really care. And so you sit here and tell me about how we can
have a strategic loss at your company because I don't treat a client right, whatever, right?
So what do you do then? And what do you have to do is you have to then explain two people
that when that they have strategic goals in their life, that they need to have some kind of a
path that they're going on. That hey, listen, listen echo Charles, I know you don't really care
about work in here, that's fine. I get it. Listen, add a minimum. If you do a good job here,
if you work here for six months, you work here for ten, 12 months, I don't know how long you're
in work for here for. When you leave, I can give you a recommendation that'll get you a better job
somewhere. That'll put you on a better path. And that's all I want. Look, I know you don't necessarily
care about my company here. You don't like flipping burgers, I get it. But guess what?
When you get done flipping burgers here, you can go get a job doing something that's a little
bit better. So I don't, this isn't just about me and the company here, jockels burgers. Look,
I'm going to be selling burgers for a long time. That's what I do. I love burgers. I know that
this isn't your life goal. Guess what? What is your life goal? Where is it? Where are you at?
Because I can promise you this. If you take care of me here, at some point, you're going to leave.
I expect that. You got a lot of potential. When you leave here, I want to leave. I want you to leave
on the best foot possible, set up for a long-term, better situation. I don't want you flipping
burgers forever. But if you flip burgers well, that's the path to not flipping burgers, which is
really interesting. One time I said, there was a person that talked about, uh, do I really need
to learn GJ2 if I don't like to fight? And I said, that you actually should learn GJ2 more than
anybody else if you don't like to fight. Echo, if you don't like flipping burgers, you more than
anyone else should say, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to be the best burger
flipper that I can be because that's going to allow me to step up into the next room because if you
can't flip burgers, bro, how can I expect you to do anything else? You're definitely not stepping
up to salad bar. And if you can't handle salad bar, you know, you're not going to be
day opener. Right? And if you can't be the day opener, you're not going to be the general manager.
If you're not the, well, if you're not going to be the storm manager, then the general manager,
you see where this goes? And by the way, if you don't want to get in the restaurant business,
that's fine too. When you go to work at a, at a mechanics shop, you want to be
want to be an automotive mechanic. And that's where you want to go. What do I tell them when
they call here to say, could Echo Charles flip burgers effectively and efficiently and reliably?
And I have to say, no, he couldn't, he was late on a regular basis. Or whatever, what if I say,
hey, you know what, Echo's, hey, he was totally reliable, good to go, great attitude. Yeah, if you,
if you look in a higher somebody that's going to be able to be a real bonus inside your organization,
Echo Charles the guy, that's what I want to do for you. But you got at least, you got to do
something for me too. So if you're running it, if you're working with that, those those kind of
entry level positions, sure, show them the strategic for the company for the business, but also show
them strategically because, look, kids don't get that these days. I, but never mind, these days,
I did, you know what, you know why I ended up doing okay in life is because I joined the navy.
And they were like, do this and I said, Roger, wanted to be a good seal. Just that, that enough,
that guidance, that, that goal was enough for me to like keep me out of trouble, keep me from being
at total idiot. I was a partial idiot plenty of times. Kept me out of being a total idiot.
So when you have the opportunity to show somebody, show a younger person, hey, what you're doing
right now is connected to the future. You might want to think about it. Here's what is your future.
Oh, okay. Well, you want to be whatever you want to be. First step is flip and burgers. And that's
okay. Flip them good. Don't burn them. Keep them, keep them together.
Note that these competitive advantages exist across the competition continuum and not only in the
time of war, we conduct exercises in part to demonstrate that United States has a military capability.
It could use if necessary. The existence of these capabilities can impose costs on a potential
rival because the rival may need to expand resources if they want to overcome or negate a US
competitive advantage as the rival pursuits are close. So you're, you're making other people pay
another little, little plug for the Marine Corps. Hey, you got to have us. You got to have us,
you got to have us well-training. You got to have us well prepared for battle because that makes
everyone else even poses a cost on everybody else, which is a positive thing. Record needs more exercises.
Yes. When viewed from this perspective, we gain an insight of into how a military competitive
advantage can help us compete with a rival. Also note that it needs to be a conscious decision on
when and how to reveal our most sensitive competitive advantages. At a minimum, we should leverage
such revelations for advantage in the information element of power. Other capabilities might be
cloaked in secrecy and so they actually need to be used. So they're awesome. Don't just reveal
the special move that you have to kick someone's ass. Yeah, man. We're celebrating, I think,
at least I am. This is the anniversary of the kickoff of Desert Storm. I think it was,
well, when recorded, it's a couple of January 17th, 1991. That was the kickoff of Desert Storm.
And I was kind of a kid wanting to be a pilot and the big reveal for us on that one that
people don't understand is the stealth fighter. And all of a sudden, there's this big triple A in
anti-aircraft system and it's going to be the Roomba Moserobus air defense system ever. And night zero,
you know, in Iraq and all of a sudden things just are blowing up and Baghdad and nobody has any
idea why they're just sitting there watching things blow up. There's nothing on radar. There's
nothing out there as far as they know except they can hear airplanes flying overhead because the
jet engines are making sound and then things are just blowing up. And we're basically told the
world, oh, by the way, we hated to have to do this. But if you're wondering, this is what we can do.
You might want to, and that's 30 years ago, our competitors are just just now, think the amount of
time and money invested in them trying to build stealth technology, which has been a huge race
in a big competition. We showed that to the world on day zero of the war. And as a pilot, obviously,
we think about that too, as the competitive advantage makes other people go, well,
maybe it's just not worth going to war with them. Maybe this just isn't worth it. Maybe this
investment we're making is not worth it because they outcome, they can do things we need to
know exist. So the revelation of that when carefully placed in time, well, can, can be a huge
advantage. Yeah, not to mention they had no time to adapt to it because if we were to told them,
they would have figured out some methodology or I'll tell you some attempt to figure out a more
accurate radar or some kind of a defense system that could spot these aircraft overhead. Yeah,
that's a great example of how you do it. It happens in GJ2, like if you have that move that you're
pretty good at and you go for it, it's not a surprise anymore. I'm not saying you're not going to
get it, but it's not a surprise. And now the person's expecting it to come. So you want if you're going
to do it, might want to hang on to it just for, you know, a little bit deeper into that role,
let that person be breathin' hard, let the O2 start to lack. All types of competitive advantages
can atrophy, however, they all need appropriate practice exercising and improving if they are to remain
advantages in the dynamic environment of international competition. Just so you can't, you can't rest
on your laurels, ever. You can't rest on your laurels, ever. Competitors as systems, competitors are
complex, adaptive systems. Again, this, this, this, competitors are complex, adaptive systems. I guess
we kind of need to say it, right? We need to make it clear. And then, but it does make it even more
clear, meaning they have many parts and these parts interact with each other in non-linear,
often unpredictable ways. Consider Iran's national security decision-making structure. To some
outside observers, they may appear to function as a strictly hierarchical organization with all
important decisions being made by the Supreme Leader and President at the top of the pyramid,
however, the rest story is much more complex. Much of the Supreme Leader's authority comes from
informal relationships. He has with top commanders in the national security infrastructure
and through the presence of his clerical representatives in military organizations. Even though
the president is the chairman of the Supreme Council for national security, his power,
EBS and flows because the Supreme Leader is the commander in chief and may bypass the president
through his informal relationships. So, even in that, like they said, very strict, what one appears to
be a strict hierarchy? It's all over the place. Guess what's more important? Relationships. Relationships
are more important than the chain of command, even in an auto-cratic country like Iran.
The military structure itself can act in under-predictable ways, especially the Islamic Revolutionary
Guards. They've developed significant and separate political power based on its financial
resources because it controls many businesses in almost every sector of the Iranian economy.
Each of these power centers, among others, Jockey's for power inside Iran,
working to advance their own internal or domestic interests. So, it's complicated.
It's complicated. And you know what's crazy when you see videos, you ever seen videos in
our pictures in Iran in like 19, whatever, 1973. It's totally westernized. It looks just like everything's
good to go. Skip and forward a little bit, developing a model of how a competitor system fits
together helps identify their competitive strengths, weaknesses, at a basic level, each of these
systems consists of people, ideas, and things. The people make the system work. They also
analyze its performance over time because they are also responsible for sustaining or improving
the systems competitive advantages. The ideas of the system are found in the goals it pursues
and in concepts it processes it uses to operate in the world. Mow famously stated politics
is a war without bloodshed while war is politics with bloodshed. This quote suggests a mindset
that blurs the lines between peace and war. The mindset, this idea creates may give a competitor
and advantage in operating near the threshold of violence. So, that statement from Mow is sort of
the same thing that this whole, there's a continuum, right? You got politics, which is just war
without blood. And then at some point you turn it into war. Now we got politics with bloodshed.
But I'm going to dig into this one a little bit. Ideally, there are things then added or
created to support the people and the ideas within the system. So we're talking about people,
ideas, and things. With this in mind, within the system helping it achieve its goals.
With this in mind, we can look at a competitor system and create a model of how it fits together,
where it is strong, and where it is vulnerable. Finally, after creating this model, Marines must remain
disciplined in its use. Models are useful, but in perfect, they are theories about the systemic
structure of our rival. We need to remain alert for opportunities to improve our models
as we learn more about how our competitors operate in the real world. Now this is the thing that
so they talk about the simple people, ideas, and things. That's sort of what a competitor system is.
And I added, well, this is up for debate, but I'll throw it out there for you. People,
ideas, and things. That's sort of what you judge how your competitors are going to operate.
I think perhaps there is possibly one more that needs to be added.
And it may be covered by people, and it may be covered by ideas, and it not things, but a little bit.
That is the idea of execution or taking action. So you can have people, you can have ideas,
and you can have things. But if you can't execute, then you're dead in the water. Now,
you could say that it's people that need to make things execute. So, okay, I get that. But I just
felt the need to kind of call that out because when I look at a competitor, I think about,
yes, they got these people. Yes, they got their, they got this team. They've got these ideas. Okay,
I get, they've got some competitive advantages there, or disadvantages. And they've got things. They got
them, they've got things. But all three of those things without execution, to me, I'm not even worried
about you. I'm not even worried about you. If you can't execute. So, I don't know. Am I, am I
reaching to you? Am I not giving enough credit to people? Possibly? Yeah, I mean, I guess that you
could dig into deeper on what they mean by that. But when you said it, the first thing that went into
my mind works in the opposite direction, too, is that they might not have the best, well, most well-trained
people. And maybe their tools are kind of outdated and their systems aren't so great because they're
antiquated and maybe they don't have big budgets. But if these people have been executing and what
with brought me to is how many times you've said on this podcast is who we were fighting in Iraq,
who we were fighting against al-Qaeda. They're things, they're things were garbage. On paper,
compared to ours, garbage. They were rusty. They were old. And there are people, and I don't mean
it like there are people like something wrong with their people, but they didn't have the training
we had. They didn't have the resources. They had their people weren't invested in in the way that we
invested in our people. But you know what they had been doing? They'd been executing for a really
long time. So that piece, and maybe somebody could say, well, that's what people is and
might be missing that. But I'm thinking of people like, I know what American marines and soldiers,
I know what those people are. And it's really easy to look across and go, those people, those people,
and just dismiss what they are. But those people had been executing and they were really good as a result.
And offset where we thought we had this big advantage. Look at our gear. Look at our training. On paper,
it should have been a one side of the fair. If you measured it with those things and what they weren't
measuring was the value of the, I think what you're saying is the execution. Yeah, and even
what you just said, like, if you take a group of marines or you take a group of soldiers,
and they have training and it's all good. But if they don't execute and you could say, well,
a marine is going to execute. We know that's actually not true. It's a good ideal. We could say
a soldier is going to soldier with a, with a, with a platoon leader is going to execute.
Not necessarily true. Not only, yeah. So to me, it's almost like a four thing that does make
sense in there. Yeah. I actually thought that the third one was going to be the execution.
People things and people people ideas ideas and execution. Yeah. That what, so it's almost like
and listening to you guys and you said a good thing. You said, um, Dave, sit on paper.
Because like that's kind of really what that whole thing kind of seems like it is because,
okay, so you got people ideas and things. But people and ideas is, it's almost like people is what
you can do and then execution is what you will do. So the, so again, on paper, where you have this
capability, you have this many people with this capability with these tools and what they can do with
these tools and then, but then just like I said, it doesn't mean that they're going to do. Yeah.
Yeah. You know, like just, you guys say default aggressive. It's like that's that, that third kind of
thing that you have to implement to create this execution. You ever seen an MMA fight that was about
to happen and on paper, the got fighter A should destroy fighter B and what, what is the problem
when he loses? Yeah. The problem is he doesn't execute. Yeah. The, the good and not to go too deep into
the MMA thing. So remember certain, uh, cowboy, surrounding the animal, the animal, the animal,
connamo-grigger, right? So you, like, Soroni is an executor guy. He executes, he executes, but then Connor is
like a cerebral guy, like he'll play up stuff before the fight as well to kind of create that, that third
man in the ring. And that third man in the ring, in this case, was to get in the way of execution.
And there's like a video on it to that theorize this where connamo-grigger was usually he's talking
trash to the guy telling them basically how much like junker of a fighter than he then he is or whatever,
but it was the opposite this time. It was like he was saying, oh man, I respect him and it was friendly.
He was really friendly actually. So it theoretically created this mindset on Donald Soroni's in his mind.
Yeah. That's like all of that. And it kind of took away from his execution instinct, you know.
So he was like, oh, it's like, oh, it's not as we're kind of frozen away. You know, it's like super
respectful fight. And then you see Connor how he came out in the fight all crazy. And it's almost like
he almost, you know, weird way surprised him, which how hard he was executing on a guy who usually
executes, but that element didn't seem to be there as much, you know. So it's like man, that execution
part of it, but that's a huge deal. Yeah. And just props to Calboy, props to Connor. Calboy,
dude, he, he's got some scorer. And he does eight million other things.
I wrote something down as you were getting to those, you know, connecting those two paragraphs.
And it's, it's really interesting to hear the conversations that you just had and that adding
that additional piece, I wrote down in my margin here, you don't know. And so this model,
this thing, this we create and and the military does this all that we make create models for
everything. And we're like, hey, I'm going to run a thousand simulations against my machine and
that we do models for everything. We create this. And it was saying, hey, don't rely on that model.
That's even more evidence. The, the, you don't know, we can create a model that can be useful
for what, competitions can be like what we think the economies are going to look like. And we
can look at history. We can create a whole bunch of things that help us make decisions. But at the end of
all that you don't know, you don't know. And so if you don't know how useful is it getting back
to the first thing is how useful is it to dig in on your way of doing? If you really don't know,
and that's really what this is saying. Even, I could say, Jockel, I've run the numbers. I've done
this analysis. I've compared to these last three, a row, I should say, if I could give you a thousand
reasons why this is the answer. And at the end, I should say, but I still don't know, because you
don't know. And that's really part of what this is saying to. And the piece in there, when you
talk about the implementation, that's where the execution, where it's all going to happen. So not knowing
and acknowledging you don't know is also a really powerful thing. And you're building this
framework in your mind of how things are going to be. Yeah. It also, that introduces the idea of
I know what you think is going to happen. And I'm not going to allow that to occur, which is,
you know, what game you think, if I can convince you that all right, Dave, you and I are going
to stand up. And you see this is like the the the most lame example, but you know, some of
it's like, oh, you know, some wrestler that's like, no way, I'm going to, I'm going to knock him out. I'm
going to knock him out. I'm going to knock him out. I'm going to knock him out. And he's trying to convince
the other person that like we're going to stand in fights. You don't have to worry about your ground
game or whatever. And then he goes out and takes him down and does what he's going to do. It's
this, what game are you going to play? Like, I'm going to get you out of your game. That's what I'm
going to do. Take away your competitive. Yeah, actually, Jeremy Stevens against Petus Anthony Petus.
And you know, Anthony Petus is a striker primarily. And I was cornering Jeremy on that fight.
And Jeremy's got, you know, fists of lead. And he knocks people out. And he he might not be the
most technical striker. I'm not saying he's not technically not. I would say he's not as technical
as Anthony Petus was at that time. And so we're going into the fight. Jeremy definitely going
into the fight thinking, hey, it's been no cool. I'm going to stand up. I know I can take a punch.
And I'm going to connect at some point with Petus's chin. And I'm going to win. What did Petus do?
Came out, took him down. And it was a surprise. It's surprised to me. It's a surprise to Jeremy.
And that's the way it went. But he changed. He did what we didn't expect him to do, which is just
a brilliant move, right? So all the things that you think you know,
done happen had another fighter was like, hey, aren't you going to work ground game? And he's like,
I can't, I'm not going to get taken down by this guy. And I said, man, you better at least,
you know, work to get off your back. I'm not going to get taken down. He's not good enough
of a wrestler to take me down. He's a striker. Okay. Cool. What happened? This, this is after the
lessons learned, right? The lessons learned from Jeremy is, you better be ready for whatever,
you better train to fight. Because you can't predict what the, what you're saying Dave,
I can't predict what the enemy is going to do. Can't predict it. I don't know what the enemy's
going to do. I might think one thing, but I can't, that doesn't mean I can blow off every other
possibility at all. What I need to do is be prepared too fight. You know, the closest thing that they
say in this is a performance, they kind of, I'm trying, I like Doug Fetus, like, where are my missing,
it maybe they are talking about execution numbers, don't see it? Like the closest I think they
have is they say analyze, you know, the, the opponents performance over time. So your sort of talking
about execution maybe he doesn't really do it, but I think maybe an additional item to assess
your opponent is necessary. And that is people, ideas, things, and execution. We also look at
our own system to increase our competitive advantages or create new ones. For example,
do the people in our system have their necessary skills and aptitudes required to sustain
our competitive advantages. Do they have the skills to build new ones? At a national level,
does the target population for our recruiting efforts have the right education in a similar way?
Can we look at our ideas? Do our operating concepts give us an advantage? And things do,
does any of our equipment provide over match to evaluate our competitive system system? Again,
to me, we can check the, we can check the ideas, we can check the things, we can check the people.
I better check the execution because none of this stuff matters without execution.
It's not always true that the organization with a new,
istermost equipment wins the competition, quote Dave Burke. Sometimes aside, it is able to combine
adequate material with innovative new ideas becomes the winner from this analysis. We can then
increase our existing advantages or create new ones as deemed necessary.
Means in competition. As similarly described, we're fighting the highest level of competition
involves the use of all the elements of power. Marines are primarily concerned with the military
aspects of competition, but we must not consider it an isolation from the other elements of
national power. War fighting states, quote, the use of military force may take any number of
forms from the mere deployment of forces as a demonstration of resolve to the enforcement of a
negotiated truth, truth to general warfare with sophisticated weaponry.
And, quote, here we see the alignment between our war fighting and competition doctrines start to
immerse. So the whole point of this thing. In war, we impose our will on our adversary.
Their cooperation is not required. Going back into influence and leadership, right?
In competition, we make use of military force to attract or coerce.
When using attraction, we use incentives, talking earlier about the carrot. We use incentives
to induce arrival or other political actor to adopt a position favorable to us or otherwise allow
us to reach our goals. And you know what? Sometimes we're going to talk about leadership,
I talk about efficiency. And sometimes people think the most efficient thing for me to do is say,
Dave, you need to use this route to get to the target. And people think that's the most of it.
Hey, and it's really hard to see past that. Because clearly, if I have to say,
you know, hey, Dave, well, how do you want to do it? And we have to have a discussion about it.
It takes us another seven minutes before I finally comply with actually what you want to do.
And that seems a lot less efficient. Yeah.
But the efficiency comes out 10 fold in the field and in the execution. Let's think about the execution.
It's because as a leader, you have to recognize that what you're doing is not getting
to point eight a point to be in this patrol. That's not what the actual goal is. That might be
this little mission. There's a little plack about what you're trying to do is create a leader.
That at some point can go fight a war for you independently without you being there in a way that
reinforce it. So it's this recognition that's not that's not even what you're trying to do.
And it's that it's that mirage of this is the best way to get it done. I get your face to tell you
what to do and look what happened. He did it mission accomplished. That is only true if the only thing
you're actually doing is getting from point eight to point B, which simply is not what you're doing.
That's not what you're doing. That's zero percent of the time. Zero. It's not what you're doing.
When using coercion, we can pedal arrival to take an action in our favor or to stop taking
an action that's not in our favor or we make use of military force to deter arrival from taking
action in the first place. For both compelants and deterrence, our goal is to use the threat of
military force to achieve our desired outcome. For this to be the case, our competitive advantage
must be clear enough to our rival that it affects the decisions they make. What's interesting about
this is when I'm your boss Dave, I have to remember that when I'm talking to you, there is
the threat of me being able to fire you. I might not even say a word about it. So I have to kind of
consciously mitigate that threat so that you will push back against me so that you will understand
that I'm open to your ideas. I have to consciously do that. So I'm not just compliant. Just yeah,
because that threat's there. And sometimes we work with companies where people are just scarred.
No one will say anything back to the boss because the last boss with tyrannical idiot that
barked everyone and told them what to do and fired half the organization and everyone was
scared all the time to make a move. And that's why, by the way, that's why we show up there because
the business is failing because there's total centralized community doesn't work.
So you've got to use the threat of military force for this to be the case. Our competitive
advantage must be clear enough for a rival to that it affects their decisions. Note that a competitive
advantage does not necessarily equal military superiority, a competitive strength of will,
along with non-military tools of policy are part of the equation too.
Attraction, political actors often use various forms of attraction to achieve their goals,
to attract someone to attract someone as to induce entice or persuade someone into doing something.
And an negotiation is a reward or incentive for someone to make a choice that is favorable to us.
We can say that then that attraction is the counterpoint to coercion instead of using pressure
to help our goals, we use some type of reward instead. Okay, carrot, stick. That's what we're talking
about. Marines participate in attraction strategies all the time demonstrating our professional
commitment to our national values when conducting bilateral training. And recent years, for example,
as part of US larger US attraction strategy, Marine provided training on amphibious operations
to an important ally to Pan. Check. That's what that's what the Marines are doing all the time.
That's what the entire military is doing all the time. That's what we need to
continue to do. We get into coercion fast forward a little bit. Political actors often use
coercion as a way to achieve their goals. To coerc someone as to pressure intimidate or force
someone into doing something or to reach one goals through the use of pressure threat or force.
There's a big difference in jujitsu between attraction and coercion.
Right, attraction is like you get someone to defend their neck so that you can take their on.
You can also force them to put themselves in a certain position. I guess that one's a little
bit of a bad example because you kind of have to defend your neck. So you're coercing them to get
those hands in position. It does this by influencing an adversary as a will or incentive structure.
It is a strategy that often combines the threat of force. And if necessary, the limited controlled
use of force with positive inducements, coercion as two forms, compelence and deterrence,
compelence is a threat intended to make an adversary do something to take a specific action.
And deterrence is a threat intended to inhibit an adversary from taking a particular action
to prevent it from even getting started. In both cases, the target of coercion must be
cooperate, must cooperate because the target must decide to comply with the goal of an actor
who is applying the coercion. This cooperation is not friendly or willing but still must
exist for coercion to be effective. Not friendly, not willing. So just to be clear, so the coercion
positive and negative or the coercion, like, okay, I'm going to force this guy or intimidate
this person to do something versus not versus, but then additionally the other coercion method
is to intimidate them to not do something. Yes, either compeling them to do something or
you're deterring them from doing something but you kind of have to participate in it.
Right, like you got to quite like, you know, I don't know, this security guard or something. Like,
hey, don't tell an aster don't whatever because we're going to go in this back door to rob the
bank or whatever, you know, right? Like so if I'm a bank robber, I want to go rob the bank.
Hmm, I know the security guard. I'm going to say, hey, I'm going to rob your bank. Don't stop us.
Or else we're going to kill you with it. Okay, yes, that's coercion. Yeah,
front to force him to not do something. Right, but he, but the point here is that he has to
he has to be willing to do it. Right, right, right, you're not just for you could, you could take his
head up where he can't even talk or move. Now, it doesn't matter where he's willing or not, he's not doing it.
Right, but I'm saying, like, let's say the ability before the bank robbery, it's like when in the
planning process, you know, maybe the bank robber, but the security guard is my neighbor or something.
And then I'm going to be like, hey, we're going to rob the bank on your shift.
Hmm, if so you can't call the cops, you know, you can't sound the alarm or whatever.
Or kill you or kill you or whatever. It's coercion. Yeah, yeah. It's also a bad plan.
Yeah, I would think so. But now he's going to tell on everybody before it happens.
Not if I coerism correctly, you seem to say you better have like his child and the
chunk of your car forever.
See, it's not that bad. Yeah, you're right. You're right. The idea of using coercion in a competition can be
misleading if we do not identify the assumptions that support its use. It's often assumed that a
stronger nation can naturally coerce a weaker one into doing what it wants. However, this assumption may
not be true if the weaker nation is willing to absorb or but more punishment than the stronger one
can or will deliver or stay committed to its goals over a longer period of time. This is
one of the things that we always have to think about this is in the Vietnam War when we try to say,
you know what, we can kill 150 of them for every one of us that they kill and we said,
that's a win. How do we lose that? How to say how you lose it? Those 150 mean less to the
communist government than the one does to the American people in the American government.
Yeah. When your model places the same value on people for your enemy as it does for yourself
and go, we've run that nobody would tolerate this. We would never tolerate this loss.
Well, they will. And I was thinking the same thing. I was thinking of when the Soviet Union
innovative Afghanistan. And again, how lopsided that appeared, but in terms of the interest in what
they were willing to endure and how long they were willing to endure. And sooner or later, it's like,
hey, we can't do this anymore. We're done here. We're done here.
It says the next week, we call this asymmetry of interest. In this case, the weaker nation has
the more powerful desire to achieve its interest in the stronger nation. This is, you have to watch
out for this. So you have to watch out for that from as a leader when you're working with a subordinate
and you start to escalate through the continuum of influence. And you don't recognize that maybe
they don't care if they get fired. And all you think, you know, you want more word out of you
and you're going to get fired. And they don't care. The example as a parent with kids
probably resonates with a lot of folks. Because as you know, certainly as your kids get older,
that threat of violence becomes so much less useful. Like, hey, if you do this, I'm going to
I'm going to ground you. Like, okay, I'll just sneak out of a few sneak out. I'm going to take
a car away. Cool. And the willingness for them to just outlast you on principle alone or the
willingness to endure whatever you are going to impose on them, you have to calculate in your mind.
What they're willing to endure. So you want to hear about some of this calculation? So my, uh,
my son had gotten a little out of line. This is when he was young. And he was in a very
austere, I put him into a very austere environment to get him to coerced to understand what
he had done wrong and how we don't do this kind of thing. And it was really strict. And it's
not by the way, it's no fun for you for the parent, right? We don't want to be strict. We want to
like have fun and it's all good and we want to buy toys and we want to just, but you, but when you
go austere, then you're not doing any of that and it's not fun. So over time, as, you know, he,
he was straightening out and he's probably like seven. And eventually, you know, he had gotten,
you know, some toys back and then he had gotten, you know, his, he could use a pillow again and his
bedroom and, uh, you know, those kind of creature comforts start to come back and then, you know,
two, three months later, I, you know, something's little spark of like, wait a second.
And, and what I called this, because he was young, I called this, uh, you know, I have to be strict
with you. So then I started being less and less strict. He started getting some of these privileges back
and then one time he started stepping online a little bit and I said, hey, am, am I going to have to
get strict with you again? And he said something along the lines of like, I think maybe you should,
so that I can be tougher. I always like, go, I was like, I did not, I was, I didn't want to be
strict with. I want to, like, let's go back to party time. Yeah, let's go back to, we can, you know,
play with toys and have a good, he says, maybe, maybe you should, so I can be tougher and I was
damn it. He just won the test of wheels you want. Like, you can take, go ahead, you should,
actually, actually, we're one level deeper, like you should. It's in my best interest for you to do that.
Let's do it immediately. So you got to, you got to pay attention to kids or come at you.
I'll come at you. Psychological warfare. Information,
information plays a special role in competition. Narratives play an important part because they are
what gives meaning to a set of facts. For example, to come, but two competitors may both as
are to possess a particular island. One of them may have a narrative that explains their claim to
the island on the basis of historical ownership. The other may have a narrative that says some
of the people that currently use the island and current possession makes their claim stronger.
Two narratives compete with each other to give facts and meanings. I got a good question on EF online
the other day. I think it was EF on the might of an client, but it was along the lines of, hey,
how do we develop this culture? And my answer was, you need to tell the story of what's going on
in it. And when we talked about on the spotcast, the Marine Corps, the Marine Corps tells the story,
yeah, that's how it's going off from the last podcast about about the squad leader makes a difference.
That thing is primed and ready to rock and roll on the podcast. So the narrative that you tell
the information that you put out there was just so important. Demonstrating a capability
and exercise and then think and then communicating so that it affects a competitor's thinking
is another way Marines use information. Leaders determine what capabilities to reveal and
when to reveal them as part of a large approach. However, much specifically revealed,
publicizing adherence to high standards in realistic training can help sustain the Marine
Corps's reputational advantage and affect the thinking of our nation's competitors. Once again,
the Marine Corps with this manual is increasing their budget. It's a traction for the DOD is what it is.
Marines need to understand the impact of culture when they use information as a competitive tool.
Cultural differences affect how narratives are interpreted by various audiences. One message
might be understood in one country in a way that is significantly different from how it is understood.
And another, Marines must account for this and focus the narratives we use so that our target
audience understands our message the way that we intend. Yes, know the story.
Know the story going back to the unraveling podcast. What is your story? Know people's stories.
The spectrum and styles of competition. The next section. The usual condition of internal
relations is one of competition across the elements of national power.
Below the violence threshold, we typically see activities from the non-military aspects of national
power. For example, economic competition is seen as a national level in the struggle for market
chair in particular industry or the effort to negotiate favorable terms in a trade agreement.
Asculation on the spectrum, we might see sharper economic acts like industrial espionage,
the theft of internet and intellectual property, use of sanctions. What's interesting about this is
how often do we go to war?
Right, like if you think about all the interactions that America has globally for the last
240, 50 years, all these interactions all the time are constantly happening, tariffs and sanctions
and all of these things are happening all the time. And very seldom do we actually pull the
trigger across the national violence. And that's, we should do that as as infrequently as possible,
obviously, and you should assess your own leadership in the same spectrum. How often do I have to
use direct leadership? It should be extremely infrequently.
Repetitive actions can also move the line up or down over time. This is about how you kind of
move up and down these continuums all the time. Gradualism and salami slicing, which we talked
about before last one, competitors use these activities in an effort to achieve their aims
without provoking a state of war or even a strong reaction.
In addition to competing through attraction, coercion and various forms illustrated above
Marines can also compete by imposing costs. We impose costs on arrival when we develop a
credible capability and arrival must spend resources in order to try and counter it.
For example, the Department of Defense has experienced increasing cyber attacks in the past decades.
This has imposed costs because the Department of Defense has to suspend time and money
to develop civilian training, the count of those attacks. We can also fast forward when we can
also impose costs during war when we first enforce the adversary to divert resources from their
preferred actions in order to counter one of our capabilities. Then we get into the threshold of violence.
The threat of violence and violent acts are competitive tools in international relations. The goal
of posturing is to affect the decision making of the target to make them so fearful of the
damage they might receive if the posturing escalates to violence that they submit and let the
posture achieve their goals. And it places one into a favorable position should violence follow.
Just think about that psychologically. If we start to think about the continuum of influence or leadership
and you start using direct influence, that's what you're doing. You're crossing over that threshold
where people are forced to submit. That's why you get the equal and opposite reaction.
In some cases, the posturing briefly crosses the threshold and violence occurs to demonstrate
the resolve of the actor. This brief use of violence still has the same aim which is to affect
the target's decision. Many actors intentionally try to obscure or confuse exactly where this
threshold lies. That's a good one. Where is that threshold? You ever known someone that just
crazy eyes, like a crazy eyes person? How about your bouncing at a bar? There's some people where
you don't know where the line is. They could shank you at any moment. Right? And now you have to
contend with that. And there's people that proactively proactively prop up that image. It's a good move.
Where you have, you might think that's a good move as a leader. But what you're really doing is
now what you're doing is you're inducing more fear. And now people don't know when you're going to
lash out. And so now they're on eggshells and they're afraid to speak up and speak out. And it's a problem.
This has been, oh, um, they do this to cause enough ambiguity and hesitation that they can
achieve their aims with little or no interference. This has been true historically. And we'll
likely increase in the future some rivals use capabilities like certain cyber and space activities
that have destructive effects but false short of some definitions of violence and effort to obscure
whether or not they would across the threshold as a push on the on the low. And support a U.S.
calls Marines perform missions on both sides of the violence threshold. In some case,
Marines were introduced into situations below the violence threshold. But then a political group
performed a violent act against U.S. interests. The discipline response of the Marines then occurred
above the threshold of violence, but the violence was limited and did not reach the level of conventional
war following these brief periods of violence. The competition again fell below the violence
threshold in most cases. Now we get into decision making initiative and response.
You might just call that a whole thing execution. I'm not 100% sure, but you might.
So Marines are taught that decision making is essential since all actions are the result of decisions
or of non-decision. It's so powerful to paint things so clearly. This is whoever wrote this
opener right here because you know how many people wrote this book Dave. Six six six six
six. The person at the wrote this section gets a little bonus credit.
Marines are taught that decision making is essential since all actions are the result
of decisions or non-decisions. If we lack the will required to make a decision then we have
willingly surrendered the initiative to our full. If we consciously postpone taking action for
For some reason, this is also a decision.
So there you go.
Boom.
That's the little section.
You got to highlight terminal lands out there.
I mean, this is what we're talking about.
Initiative is as important in competition as it is in war, gaining the initiative means
our competitor must react to us.
We can gain it by presenting a dilemma to our competitor and also by setting the tempo
of the activity taking place.
Brian Stan, when he was on here's operational tempo.
He loved, he loved, he loved everyone's got their move.
In Gigi, two of them got their, they got that key, a team.
They got that Camira, they got that heel hook.
When Brian Stan was on here, I just remember him talking about that operational tempo
where it's going to, and I'll, that's what he's, that's what this guy's talking about.
Setting the tempo of the activity.
Marines must assume that potential competitors understand initiative as well as we do.
Thus they will take actions in order to gain the initiative.
Many competitors also seek to create ambiguity about their actions which leads to a problem
of attribution.
If we are not certain who performed a certain action, then we cannot attribute that
action to any particular actor.
This often delays our response and slows our tempo.
Firstly, if we improve understanding of how of our competitor, we can be primed to attribute
their actions in ways that slow their tempo instead.
To know that and to be able to recognize, oh, this isn't just, it's not just that I can't
figure out exactly who did this.
It's that I am now my Udalupe is slowing down right now.
Because I think they did it, but I can't be sure.
While competition essentially always exists, it's intensity varies over the course of time.
We must also understand that the long timelines involved in competition mean decisions and
actions sometimes play out over months or years, even decades in some cases.
This often results in opportunistic behavior as rivals take advantage of conditions to achieve
their strategic goals without crossing the violence threshold or crossing it briefly.
And then returning low to threshold before triggering a war.
The journey is often created when conditions suddenly change or temporarily, such as when
a pandemic strikes, a pandemic strikes, which is interesting.
I don't know if they wrote this before or after.
I get they probably slid it in there.
You think they slid it in there?
Yeah, I think this was drafted like this last year.
Yeah, they slid it in there such as this diverts attention and resources which creates
a gap for an alert competitor to exploit.
Having no fixed timeline for achieving goals, plus opportunism also leads to incrementalism,
which is the effort to achieve a goal by adding together a number of small steps taken
on a path toward it.
Achieving our goals in competition requires action which comes from making decisions.
Therefore what Marines are taught for war fighting serves them well here provided, they
also apply judgment in recognizing how timelines can differ between war and the rest of the
competition continuum.
So this idea of incrementalism is something you got to be on the lookout for.
You got to be on the lookout for that slow creeping maneuver that your enemies making.
And at some point you got to draw the line what I recommend is instead of drawing a line,
what you do is you incrementally respond.
So when that go, makes it a little maneuver, that's a little bit offensive to me.
I just don't say well he hasn't really crossed the line.
I actually give a little bit of a check, a little check.
That's a little check.
So from a leadership perspective, what does that mean?
It means when Dave, when Dave decides he's going to spend a little bit too much money on the
company credit card, I don't just go well, I don't really eat him like cross line.
I might say, hey Dave, I see I see got it some expenses here that are, what is this?
What did you buy?
Just check and oh yeah, I just needed some oil for my car.
Okay, but for your car.
Yeah, yeah, well, okay.
Was that for a company trip?
No, no, no, no, no, I'll change.
I'll talk to you.
We'll get it straight now.
Okay, because you're trying to incrementally see if you can start putting real stuff on
the company credit card.
No, you can't.
But if I don't check you, if instead I draw a line in the sand, well now all of a sudden
you've developed a pattern and you've gotten a habit and you could actually come back
to me and say well, I'll be doing this for a while.
I don't want any of that.
So I'm going to check you.
Am I going to check you with a, with a hockey stick across the face?
No, I'm going to give you a little test a little.
I'm here.
I see what's happening.
I don't draw a line in the sand because in a line in the sand can be offensive.
Yeah.
And why did you break a rule if you knew the rule is there?
If you broke a rule, I probably did a bad job of explaining that hey man, company credit
cards, we use them for company business.
And what we can't do is we can't have a bunch of little charges adding up over time and
then we look up and we, we have lost a bunch of money and spending on things that don't really
benefit the company.
So anything that you think you're using for your personal gain or for your personal life
is not allowed.
So that's a little bit of a line, but I'm not, I'm not smack in you with it.
I'm showing it to you.
And you've got, you have options when you take that approach.
You can, there's a lot of different things you can do in there.
And the, the problem with the line is that that basically commits you to, to, to a response
to a course of action that you, it's really, really hard to maneuver away from that.
And if you're using the line like, hey, if I just draw the line, then, then Jocco's
not going to cross the line.
I use it more as a tool to keep you from doing it than it's actually what I'm really willing
to do.
You have almost no maneuver space there.
And you talk about that's all the time.
You want to keep as many options as much maneuverability as you can.
And that line takes all that away from me.
And if the line is just a tool to get you to comply.
And that person, this is talking about an adversary.
This is an alert adversary looking for ways to commit you that limits anything that limits
your options.
And certainly I know this about the Marine Corps is something we don't want.
Isn't a beautiful thing when the line is implied with such strength that I never even
set it, but you're new, not to cross it.
How many how many charges have you made on your company credit card for your personal
game?
The answer is zero.
Right?
And not doing that here.
And not out of fear of compliance either.
Or, or compliance based on fear, but out of a recognition of why that actually is what
you should be doing.
And there's some things inside here that translate perfectly.
And there's some things you actually have to think about because this publication, this
manual is really in a lot of ways talking about competitors.
And there's a component there that directly aligns well when you're competing with
you're running a company.
There's a competitive company.
But the connection to the leadership piece to your people, you got to kind of translate that
a little bit.
You don't want to go to war with your people.
Your goal isn't to set that line to establish your authority so they comply.
You want to avoid that.
It almost all costs.
But you need your into same thing with my kids.
Do I want my son to know that there's a line?
Yes.
He and he knows.
He almost, well, it happens, but he doesn't cross that line very often.
I'm not forced to respond in a limited way very often.
But I want him to know that.
So let's say there is a street in front of your house, really busy.
Would you put the line that you're son when he's four years old?
Would you put the line at the street?
No.
How no.
You put the line a little further back.
And would you then escalate like, hey, you can't go past this?
This is 20 yards from the road where you could get killed.
That's what we do.
Yeah.
Even the actual line where you're going to like give significant punishment because
you have to impress upon the kid, like my dog, kid dog.
My dog, I have this.
And my house, if my dog goes out off my front porch, he's going to be on a street with
his car.
I gave him hard corrections when he was a puppy that now I've done leave there.
He knows what's up.
He knows that he can't do it.
So that's where the line isn't.
He could go off my porch and go another 15 yards before he'd actually get hit.
But I don't give him that extra 15 yards.
I give him like, okay, here it is.
Don't go across this line and he's been trained and he understands it.
So that's what you got to watch out for.
When your dog might not ever make this connection, but the obvious goal with your people
is that the recognition is that it's in their business.
You're trying to help them.
And that's the piece of like, hey, when you're talking about your adversaries and you
haven't talked a little bit about coercion.
In some way, we're actually even though our adversaries basically trying to say, hey, don't
do this.
This is in your best interest.
Please don't do this.
Or, hey, I'm going to really need you to do this.
But from a leadership standpoint, all those things, even those lines that you draw, the ideal
situation is usually it's actually what's in their best interest and they're pushing
against it.
You might want to find out why they're pushing against that.
Anyway, I just think that that connection of what's in their best interest and that
that line, I mean, we, you want to be able to maneuver as much as possible all the time
and keep as many options open as possible.
So that line should be just be real cautious about drawing that explicitly.
And if you do, if you can get them to understand why that's there, that's so much more powerful
than it's just, hey, I'm going to hand me if you hit the cross line.
Yeah.
The Y is huge.
And if they don't understand why, then it's an arbitrary thing that you threw up there.
And look, I'm not saying that you shouldn't have that.
Because if people, you should absolutely have lines where, hey, you cross this line,
you made it as ethical mistake, you do something that's actively freaking criminal.
You're done.
That's where we're at.
Just so everybody knows, you do something like that.
You're done.
Period end of story.
There's no, there's not even discussion.
So don't do that.
Getting into the conclusion, like war, competition serves policy, but usually does so
over longer spans of time, these long time lines lead us to look for policies, aims in our enduring
national interests with aspects of these interests emphasized by current state of domestic
policies, politics.
Again, apply that to your personal life, apply that to your business.
What are you trying to do?
What are your enduring interests?
Attraction is important concept in our theory of competition.
It uses incentives and rewards to get another political actor to act differently in ways
that are aligned with our interests.
That's what we're doing as a leader.
We're using attraction.
We're using coercion.
We're using the stick.
We're using the carrot.
What do we want to use?
We want to use the carrot as much as possible.
And you know what?
We want them to think they found that carrot.
Our version is another important component of our theory.
It takes two forms, compelence to cause a rival to take action favorable to our goals and
deterrence to cause a rival to not take action.
That's what you were asking earlier, I think.
I don't know if I gave you that clear of an answer.
In war, we impose our will on an enemy.
With coercion, we need our rivals cooperation because they must decide to comply with
our wishes.
And if their cooperation is unwilling, the existence of the Marine Corps is a coercive
tool for the nation.
If its competitive advantages advantage is made clear to a rival.
Competitors act like systems.
They have many parts that interact with each other in complex, often unpredictable ways.
This also means competitors have strengths and weaknesses as competition unfolds over time.
The rival systems can sense what their competitor is trying to do and adapt or evolve in
an effort to improve their competitive advantage.
It's always adapting.
These will often blend the threat of violence or the use of violence itself with other
tools to gain an advantage.
This constantly shifting mixture can get confusing, which is part of the goal.
Competitors often intend for this confusion to help them reach their goals by causing their
rivals to hesitate.
This also helps them gain the initiative so that they can set the pace of the tempo for
the competition.
I'm more or two hours deep right now.
I'm not even getting it.
Well, the chapter three is next.
You know, something that I say and I think you and I discussed this the other day on the
phone Dave, the best way to win is when the enemy doesn't even know the fighting.
What Sunsu was, the supreme, what Sunsu said was the supreme art of war is to subdue the
enemy without fighting.
That's what we're trying to do.
To win, to influence Dave without Dave even knowing that I influenced him.
I want to maneuver my ideas into your head so that you think they're, they're, they're your
ideas.
I want to preemptively remove your will to fight before you even think you should be
in a fight before before you even think you should be putting up resistance.
You already are thinking that you don't want to resist.
That's my goal.
I want to make you a champion of my cause as if it were your own cause.
That's what we're trying to make happen.
And by the way, what what makes this easy?
Er, what makes this and actually makes it easy is when my cause is your cause because
you're, it helps you.
If I'm over here trying to convince you to do something that doesn't help you, man, it's
freaking hard.
But when I can align my goals with your goals and I can give you ownership, that allows,
that allows these strategies and tactics for you to get on board with what I want you
to do and you don't even know that I'm trying to make you do it.
So this one of the most important things about this manual is simply making you aware
that you're competing and you have to be aware that you're also influencing all the time
and you're on that spectrum and you're on that continuum and you're either gaining leadership
capital or you're spending it.
And if you do it right, people are on board.
And the deeper part of that is you are actually propelling them towards victory, form
or them.
If you do it right, you're propelling them towards victory and they are happy to be
moving there.
And if I'm trying to get Dave to do something that he's resistant to and it's going
to help him in the long run, it's going to help us in the long run.
Why is he resistant?
I need to listen to him to see what his resistance is.
Why is he resisting?
That's what we're doing.
We're on a constant continuum of influence.
Yes, we're competing but we're influencing as leaders.
We're also competing obviously.
We want to stay competitive in a multitude of ways.
We'll say any ways that you can recommend for us to maybe maintain or improve our competitive
advantage in the world.
What do you think?
First one, which I think goes unnoticed and you do good job in reminding us from time
to time is what game are you playing?
Isn't that one of the questions you always get?
What motivates you?
Right, you get that one a lot.
Still kind of a question that you kind of got to ask yourself a lot of the time.
Because it kind of seems like okay, so getting in shape, for example, or being
in shape, shape, and shape whatever.
For some for the average person, whatever that even means because I don't know what that
actually even is.
But to wake up before 30 and do and it's not like you're waking up in 430 and doing
a stretching routine for 10 minutes, like you're kind of going hard.
That's every single day.
Not to say you're going full speed every single day.
But I'm just saying your routine is like the average person not going to do that.
So you're over here going hard.
But why?
You know?
Competitive advantage.
Yes.
Exactly.
So what I'm saying is in your head it's there.
But I think in like a lot of our head this segment is not always there like we've got
to kind of get reminded everyone's own.
You know, just to confirm things in the world.
You know, in discipline it goes freedom field manual.
But let's talk about like how if you exercise, you'll be sharper mentally sharper.
And then hearing that chess player the other day Gary Kasparov talk about how if you're
in shape it's going to help you win at chess.
I was like keep working out people.
Keep working out people.
That's what you need to do.
Yeah.
And you're kind of always your mind's kind of seems to be anyway always kind of in that
zone where it's like you're kind of looking for some kind of advantage or something to add
to, you know, your deal or whatever.
But for the every person, I think some of us don't do that all the time because we kind
of forget or maybe to get distracted or whatever.
Maybe that's the same thing.
But where that's why people they'll work out less.
More things going on all this stuff, right?
So they forget.
Yeah.
You got that.
Let's face it.
You pour all your efforts into your job.
Your family and your physical health are going to fall.
If you pour all your efforts into your family, your job and your physical health is going
to fail.
If you pour all your efforts into your physical health, your job and your family are
going to fail.
So we have to be balanced.
If you let the physical one fall apart, that's going to negatively impact the other.
I actually, they all, they all impact each other, right?
They all impact each other.
But let's face it as you pointed out on one of the earliest of these podcasts.
The physical one will help you across the board in all aspects of the game.
So the way, maybe the best game.
The game.
The game straight up.
In a way, the best way, the best strategy, you know, instead of pouring everything you
have into your XYZ, whatever one thing you align them all and understand that they're
all this, what it call it in business, vertically integrated and whatever.
Right?
Just called the path.
The path.
Yeah, same thing.
So look, I'm going to exercise, be capable on duty, get to.
I'm going to improve all my applicable skills.
So I can be a better whatever those things are, whatever you are.
You seem to have to know what you're going with.
People should get supplements for more than you may.
Is that what you're going with?
I think I just saw little connection getting made.
I'm going to make that connection in 20 minutes.
I'm down.
See that kind of artistic maneuver.
The intellectual sharpness as you bring it in for the big win and all of a sudden you're
talking about how we're going to get some supplementation.
I'm hype on that.
But when we start going 12 minutes and we're talking about alignment and vertical integration,
this is an important thing.
Okay.
I'll just say it.
Now you did have one person respond on social media that they are listening.
Right now.
So that person is happy that you're going down the path of whatever you're going down.
Hey, look.
Which is fine.
Oh, right.
Well, hey, better to be over-inform then under-informed.
Okay.
So, hey, look data.
I don't know if we can make that necessarily a blanket statement because I think
the people that are right now are questioning.
Well, I love this.
I mean, in this scenario that we're in at this moment.
Hey, thanks for helping it alone.
Okay.
You know, you're a little bump.
Push.
You do a great job.
A little influence.
Anyway, all right.
Cool.
Where we're here trying to compete, stay competitive, improve, and maintain our competitive
advantage.
Okay.
Look, we need supplementation.
Yeah, quickly that worked.
Yeah.
I kind of set you up like, hey, how can we maintain competitiveness?
You could sit boom and you were there.
I know many things like my idea too.
There wasn't a lot of money.
I did.
I didn't.
The scene in my head and man, that was like, man, the best idea ever came up, seemingly.
That was a good job.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I'm taking discipline and discipline.
Go, that's probably why my brain is so sharp.
Let me say something.
Because even as you're talking about this, people aren't thinking, okay, what
does this all mean?
Here's what, here's a bonus thing.
Because we repeat a lot of the same stuff, right?
Sure.
We certainly seem to repeat.
What are you writing now?
Nothing.
Just continue, please, with your thoughts.
You're making notes.
That's the indication of that.
It's that.
We added in stuff.
Please, please continue.
Are we having things?
You can add it now.
Check this out.
I got good news.
Everything that you're about to talk about is available with free shipping at originmain.com.
If you get a subscription, so if you want, what do you take every day?
All of them.
Uh, joint warfare.
Okay.
Supercruo oil, vitamin D, discipline in some form.
Single day.
Dave, what are you on, daily?
Cold war.
What about the cold oil?
I guess I have to remember, I have such a stash of this that I forget.
Geez.
So, so I am, I am, I'm almost ashamed to say that.
But the only one I don't have a huge stash of is Cold War.
I think you said vitamin D, maybe that's what you were alluding to.
What did I say?
You said vitamin D.
Yeah.
I say Cold War.
That one is now, that one is now on regular shipping.
Okay.
So, if you go on that, if you subscribe, yes.
And of course go, then you get free shipping, yeah, which is pretty awesome.
Yes, sure.
So, if you want to get any of these items on a regular basis, which we recommend
you do.
Mm-hmm.
Get subscription.
Get a subscription, and you get free shipping.
Okay.
Done.
So, let me go down the list.
These are all beneficial things.
Maintain the competitive edge, joint warfare for your joints.
Don't worry about that stuff.
You don't have to worry about your joints anymore.
Super cruel oil.
Same deal.
General health are other benefits, vitamin T3, and it is another one.
Also cold war, this for immunity and other health benefits.
Better to have health benefits than health.
Deutch events.
Okay.
You're like, that's the threat, you're like, actually, you're here.
So, you should release operations that I don't know what you're saying, and the you
hold it off credit.
Negative credit.
Credit is in the you understand credit.
Right.
Anyway, back to the supplements, discipline.
discipline go. So discipline the powder for your brain for your body
discipline go, brain body just on the go quicker, delivery system, capsules, and
also the energy drink form. It's a healthy energy drink by the way if we didn't
already know, even though we do, that is those are the facts. Also, milk for extra
protein form and dessert, super delicious tasting protein as a dessert. Yeah,
you could say extra protein where you just say, oh, if you want also one of
dessert, cool, you can get some milk. You get them at wall, you get the drinks,
you can get the the ready to drink the cans at wall wall all the wall
was by the way, they're in there and vitamin shop. So you can you can get them there
or you can get them at origin main.com and if you get a subscription, there's a
little issue with the wall us in area. What is it? I got a lot of videos of
people just going in there and cleaning it out. So people going there with
coolers, yeah, going to the shelves of wall and empty every can. So be
born. Yeah, they're getting after people are getting after it. But the great
great thing is we started off in Florida and it was sort of a test run for
walla and everyone went after those. After those things, those and walla and
just almost like less than a month into it, less than a month into a three
month trial walla came to us and said, we want you know the stores. So thank
you for for getting after it and walla was going to deliver walla was also in the
game because they get tagged a lot from people out there shopping walla and
they always get a good reply. Awesome. Interesting that yeah, I saw that with a guy
with the cooler was like a bin and he was like boom, cool. I was like, let's
interesting. I don't think I've ever been really that compelled to do that with
it with the like a drink or whatever. I'm saying under what circumstances would I
be? And then I thought back to it was like maybe like four days or so before
it were I texted be little with the emergency scenario because I was only on my
last one. Because I think they'll send it. They'll send it in and because usually
I don't go to my last one. But what if I'm on my last one and I'm like, wait a
second I can go to walla and restock. Then you're bringing a cooler. So it makes
sense. Exactly. Right. That's one other good reason you got here on a
subscription. That day doesn't come. That day does not come. And we don't want
that day to come. So yes, you mentioned originate.com. That's where you can get it
as well. Also an originamine.com. You can get you just to stuff gear, jegees,
rashguards, against stuff also shirts and sweats and cool clothes as well. This
is all American made stuff by the way. Big deal. Yeah, you just do competitive
advantage. Yes, competitive advantage to have not slave labor but awesome
people. Yeah, you you mentioned that like slave labor like when you kind of
you know the front end of the slave labor situation, right? You could just be like,
oh yeah, we'll just make it super cheap. You know, you guys make it and we can
sell it for higher or whatever. But it's own cares about what they're doing on
every step. You know, like manufacturer like, okay, my job is to do this and
do this and to do this and I'm going to just do it. But I care about doing it.
Brother, it's way better. Like quality wise in every capacity and sustainable.
Yeah. So yes, that is a competitive advantage. What if everyone on your team
cared about what their job was?
Brother, that's all right. And so you just nailed that.
Sure. I agree that that is the case.
Unless back to how we can all support ourselves.
Jocquad was a store called Jocquad store and this is where you can represent your
apparel while you're on the path maintaining your advantage competitively.
We have shirts and hoodies and hats. They all say disciplinicals freedom or
something along those lines. Good. Good. Same thing in a way. Kind of part of this.
Anyway, you understand what I'm saying?
Good stuff on there. There's a T-shirt club called this shirt locker.
S-H-U-S. Thank you to whoever made that suggestion.
Yeah, that's a good one. It was a lot better than the other name that we had been
using here. The thing is to be honest, like the more I think about it, the
shirt locker is like it didn't even matter what the name was before.
That one would probably be better because it's like perfect.
That's the perfect name. The shirt locker.
Yep. And that is also a subscription scenario where you can get kind of different types of shirts
from us. A little not hardcore disciplinicals freedom stuff, but some fun stuff.
It's cool. It's cool. It'll deal. So you look into that. That's for you.
Do that.
Jocquad store.com.
Subscribe to this podcast. You can also join us on the underground.
Go to jockelunderground.com. It's alternative podcasts.
Some amplifying information. Some behind the scenes. Some Q&A.
Some live stuff. And we're going to actually record yet another underground podcast right
now about going into some other facets of these discussions.
And and reason we're doing that. We don't. We need to have an alternative platform.
And we don't want to take on sponsors where we have to say what they say us.
Say what they tell us to say. And then also not say what they tell us not to say.
We don't want to do that. We definitely don't want to have anyone critiquing how certain
people on this podcast talk about the items that are discussed.
Oh, David. Look at David. Look at the two.
Hey, because eight dollars and 18 cents a month or you can even if you can't afford eight dollars
and eight, you can send some of. But by the way, this is what supports this podcast.
Two, but we don't want to have the jockel podcast behind a pay wall.
I always say firewall and you like correcting me right before I even said it, which is good.
Because I saw you right my mouth.
Little and sink is at that. Yeah. Yeah. Let's sink. Yeah. Well, a firewall is an actual thing in
like programming or something like that. Okay. Well, we just have a we don't want to put it
behind a pay wall because we don't ever move over to here. And so that's why eight dollars and
18 cents a month. If you if you can't afford that, it's okay. Email assistance at jockel
underground.com and we will take care of you. We also have jockel unraveling podcast. We have
the grounded podcast. We have the warrior kid podcast. We have a YouTube channel where echo puts
his legit videos. A lot of those most of the good ones are ones that I'm the assistant director on
and you'll notice a trend there. Yeah. Yeah. Good ones. Psychological warfare, album.
On iTunes, if you need a little help, get no for a little. Whatever moment moment, momentary weakness.
Maybe permanent weakness. Yeah. Maybe you be listening to that thing a lot. If you have
like permanent weakness. So you get that on any MP3. Also got flipside canvas.com to code
to Myers company. Got a bunch of books. Leadership strategy and tactics field manual.
That's ready for you. All the answers are in that book. What do you think Dave?
Yes. The code, the evaluation, the protocols we got about face with I would have the four
honored to be able to write that discipline because freedom failed manual. Way the warrior kid one,
two, three and four the way the warrior kid field manuals out. Mike in the dragons and
extreme ownership and the academy leadership. We also have a leadership consultancy called
National on front, go to echelon front dot com for details on that. We have EF online.
Where we are have courses and you can take on leadership. We have live interactions.
There go to eF online dot com. We have the muster in 2021, which is our leadership conference.
Go to extreme ownership dot com for details. We're making some adjustments on that right now.
On when those are going to take place. EF Overwatch executive leadership for your company.
Go to eF Overwatch dot com. If you want to help service members, active service members,
retired service members. If you want to help gold star families and service members families at large,
then you can check out Mark Lee's mom's charity organization. Mom and Lee. If you want to donate
or you want to get involved, go to americazmightywriers dot org. And if you didn't get enough
of my severe circumlocution or you need more of Echos befuddled bulletins or Dave's exhaustive
explanations. You can find us on the in the web on Twitter, on Instagram,
which obviously echo only refers to as the gram. And on Facebook, Dave is that David
Arburke echo is adequate Charles and I am at jockel one. I can thanks all the military personnel
out there in all branches of service in uniform around the world keeping us out of harms way
by going into harms way yourself. And also thanks to police and law enforcement firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, board patrol, secret service, all first responders.
We thank you for the same for going into harms way to keep us out of it.
And everyone else out there, you are somewhere on that continuum,
on the competition continuum, on the leadership continuum, on the influence continuum. It's
happening every moment of every day. So don't lose track of that and don't get beat without knowing
your competing. You are competing. So stay in the game by going out there and getting it after it.
Until next time, this is Dave, Eneko and Jockel.
Out.